<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/reset.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/fonts.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/video-player.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/ibooks.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/ibooks-alt.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Figure and Video Descriptions</title>
    

<meta charset="utf-8" />
 <meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="raw\descriptions.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4788abdd-0c1c-52b5-b03a-38a0aaf4a072" />
</head>
<body>
<section class="section descriptions" epub:type="part" role="doc-part">
<h1 class="chapter key">Figure and Video Descriptions</h1>

<h2 class="ch-num">Chapter 1</h2>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure1-1">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 1.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">Countries with a Federal System of Government</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Benefits of strong solvency:</p>

<p>Increased ability to withstand economic downturns</p>

<p>Ability to support more business</p>

<p>Reduced regulatory scrutiny</p>

<p>Stronger foundation to pursue new initiatives</p>

<p>Higher ratings from rating agencies</p>

<p>Increased employee job security</p>

<p>Ability to attract top industry talent</p>

<p>Greater customer confidence</p>

<p>Reduced risk of regulator control</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter1/page3.xhtml#figure1-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 1.1.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure1-2">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 1.2</p>

<p class="fig-title">Examples of U.S. Administrative Agencies</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Benefits of strong profitability:</p>

<p>More cash available for investing</p>

<p>Greater growth and capacity to serve more customers</p>

<p>Lower interest rates on borrowed funds</p>

<p>Higher ratings from rating agencies</p>

<p>More funds to support new products and distribution channels</p>

<p>Higher policy or stockholder dividends</p>

<p>Greater ability to price products competitively</p>

<p>Greater capacity to invest in customer service improvements</p>

<p>Greater ability to attract and retain employees</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter1/page3.xhtml#figure1-2" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 1.2.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure1-3">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 1.3</p>

<p class="fig-title">Sources of Law</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>A chart comparing actuaries and data scientists in three categories.</p>

<p>Category 1, Knowledge:</p>

<p>Actuaries have more experience with the financial ramifications and impact of analysis; data scientists specialize in new techniques such as neural networks and natural language processing.</p>

<p>Category 2, Approach:</p>

<p>Actuaries tend to use established methods; data scientists use new methods, depending on the data.</p>

<p>Actuaries tend to use past experience to project future outcomes; data scientists explore alternatives to traditional approaches.</p>

<p>Actuarial work must adhere to strictly regulated methods and tests; data scientists answer primarily to company management.</p>

<p>Category 3, Focus:</p>

<p>Actuaries seek opportunities to enhance financial results, but generally have a stronger focus on risk, while data scientists tend to focus more on the search for potential opportunities.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter1/page5.xhtml#figure1-3" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 1.3.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure1-4">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 1.4</p>

<p class="fig-title">Type of Legal System in Various Countries</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>A cycle of three nodes, with both a “first pass” route and a “second pass” route.</p>

<p>Node 1: Define the Problem; first pass: Identify customer need</p>

<p>Node 2: Design the Solution; first pass: Create alternatives for products</p>

<p>Node 3: Monitor the Results; first pass:Collect product data</p>

<p>Node 1: Define the Problem; second pass: Isolate product element not performing as expected</p>

<p>Node 2: Design the Solution; second pass: Modify product element</p>

<p>Node 3: Monitor the Results; second pass:Collect product data</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter1/page5.xhtml#figure1-4" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 1.4.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="video1-1">
<p class="fig-num">Video 1.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">Risk Appetite and Risk Tolerance</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Risk appetite and risk tolerance both measure the amount of risk that a company will accept. But there are a couple of differences between the two.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[A cafeteria counter; there’s a cook behind the counter. A sign on the counter says “<strong>TODAY’S SPECIAL: RISK</strong>”. A man walks up to the counter, and looks thoughtful.]</p>

<p>Risk appetite is a qualitative measure for the amount and type of risk that a company is willing to seek out. It describes the company’s attitude toward risk in general terms.</p>

<p><strong>Man:</strong> I’ll have the special, please.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The cook nods and lifts up, from behind the counter, a huge platter with a roast turkey and trimmings. The man starts back, a little surprised.]</p>

<p><strong>Man:</strong> I can’t eat all that!</p>

<p>For example, a typical insurer has a conservative attitude toward risk, focusing on solvency over profitability. In other words, it has a low appetite for most risks.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The cook puts away the big platter of turkey, and hands the man a plate with a more modest lunch serving of turkey and fixings. The man smiles and walks away happy.]</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The same man in a grocery store, by a meat counter with a butcher behind the counter. (A sign, sticker, or label on the meat counter says “RISK”.) He’s looking thoughtful. A thought balloon appears over his head, with an image of that plate of turkey he had earlier in it.]</p>

<p>Risk tolerance is different in two ways. For one, it defines how much risk a company will <strong>accept</strong> as opposed to how much it will <strong>seek out</strong>.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The man raises a hand to get the grocer’s attention.]</p>

<p><strong>Man: </strong>One kilogram, please.</p>

<p>Risk tolerance is also quantitative. It describes risk in more specific, quantifiable terms.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[Close-up on a digital grocery scale, with slices of “turkey” (representing the risk) being piled on. As slices are added, the digital number on the scale goes up until it hits 1.0.]</p>

<p><strong>Man:</strong> That’s enough, thank you!</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The man accepts the wrapped package from the grocer. He looks at the package. In a popup a nutrition information label is displayed. Instead of a “calories” at the top of the label, instead we see <strong>Risk: 1.0</strong>. The rest of the label can be blurred and illegible. ]</p>

<p>For instance, an insurer might issue specific risk tolerance statements, such as:</p>

<div class="figure">
<ul>
	<li>“Respite Life Insurance will not risk more than 5 percent of its economic capital in any given year”</li>
	<li>“Respite’s earnings will not vary by more than 10 percent from one year to the next”</li>
	<li>“Respite seeks a 95 percent probability of maintaining its current AAA rating”</li>
</ul>
</div>

<p>So while risk appetite <em>generally</em> describes how much risk that an insurer will seek out, risk tolerance <em>quantifies</em> how much risk the insurer will take on.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter1/page4.xhtml#video1-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Video 1.1.</a></p>
</div>

<h2 class="ch-num">Chapter 2</h2>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure2-1">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 2.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">Contingency Risks</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Asset risk (C-1) includes:</p>

<p>Losses in market values of assets (for reasons other than interest-rate movements)</p>

<p>A borrower defaults by failing to make timely payments of interest or principal</p>

<p>Pricing risk (C-2) includes:</p>

<p>Adverse mortality experiences relative to actuarial assumptions: for life insurance products, higher mortality rates than expected; for annuity products, higher life expectancy rates than expected</p>

<p>Increases in administrative costs</p>

<p>Interest-rate risk (C-3) includes:</p>

<p>Losses in market values of assets, as caused by interest-rate movements</p>

<p>A loss on a forced sale of assets, as caused by rising market interest rates</p>

<p>An increase in customer withdrawals, as caused by rising market interest rates</p>

<p>Losses on bond prepayments and mortgage prepayments, as caused by falling market interest rates</p>

<p>Losses due to asset-liability mismatches</p>

<p>General management risk (C-4) includes:</p>

<p>Losses due to an expansion into new lines of business or geographic expansion</p>

<p>Losses due to changes in laws that adversely affected the business</p>

<p>Adverse judgments from class-action lawsuits</p>

<p>Reputational loss</p>

<p>Ratings downgrades</p>

<p>Losses caused by mismanagement of any sort</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter2/page3.xhtml#figure2-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 2.1.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure2-2">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 2.2</p>

<p class="fig-title">Remedial Actions Available to Regulators in Cases of Financial Distress</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>The Model Hazardous Condition Regulation authorizes regulators to require the financially impaired insurer to take corrective actions, such as any of the following:</p>

<div class="figure">
<ul>
	<li>Use reinsurance to reduce its liabilities and obtain surplus relief</li>
	<li>Limit its new or renewal business</li>
	<li>Reduce its general and commission expenses by specified means</li>
	<li>Increase its capital and surplus</li>
	<li>Suspend or limit dividend payments</li>
	<li>Limit or divest investments in specified assets</li>
	<li>File reports stating the value of invested assets</li>
	<li>Document the adequacy of its premium rates</li>
</ul>
</div>

<p>The Model Supervision Act authorizes regulators to require the financially impaired insurer to obtain permission from regulators before it can take any of the following actions:</p>

<div class="figure">
<ul>
	<li>Sell or transfer assets or in-force business or use assets as collateral for loans</li>
	<li>Withdraw funds, lend assets, or invest</li>
	<li>Incur debt</li>
	<li>Accept new initial premiums</li>
	<li>Renew policies that are not guaranteed renewable</li>
	<li>Merge with another company</li>
	<li>Enter into a new reinsurance treaty</li>
	<li>Pay specified surrender values to customers</li>
	<li>Increase the compensation to its officers or directors</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter2/page3.xhtml#figure2-2" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 2.2.</a></p>
</div>

<h2 class="ch-num">Chapter 3</h2>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure3-1">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 3.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">Portfolio Risk Management in ALM</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Diversification: Spread out risk among a variety of assets</p>

<p>Hedging: Hold an asset that offsets the risk of another asset</p>

<p>Cash-Flow Matching: Structure assets so cash inflows match cash outflows</p>

<p>Duration Matching: Structure assets to have the same interest-rate sensitivity as liabilities</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter3/page6.xhtml#figure3-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 3.1.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure3-2">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 3.2</p>

<p class="fig-title">Risk Map</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Image of a risk map, which appears as a five-by-five grid. The columns represent the likelihood of risk, running from very low to very high. The rows represent the severity of risk, running from very low to very high. The grid contains colors based on the intersection of likelihood and severity. Where both likelihood and severity are both low, the risk color is green; where both likelihood and severity are high, the risk color is orange or red. Where both factors are medium, or where a low factor meets a high factor, the risk color is yellow.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter3/page8.xhtml#figure3-2" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 3.2.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="video3-1">
<p class="fig-num">Video 3.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">The Three Lines of Defense</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p class="vid-desc">[A castle on one side of the screen. From the opposite side of the screen, an army approaches. The castle doors open and a line of soldiers with shields walk out toward the army. The soldiers stop with their backs to the castle, holding the front line.]</p>

<p>An insurance company’s first line of defense against risks is its operational management. As the front line, they own and manage risks.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The castle doors open again, this time with soldiers on horses coming out. The soldiers on horses stop behind the first line.]</p>

<p>The second line of defense consists of oversight functions, such as the risk committee and the compliance function. This line ensures that the first line is properly managing risks.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[Zoom in on archers from the castle window.]</p>

<p>The third line of defense, which consists of internal auditors, monitors the effectiveness of the second line. To ensure its objectivity, the third line acts independently of the other lines.</p>

<p>Together, the three lines of defense form a comprehensive risk management approach.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter3/page4.xhtml#video3-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Video 3.1.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="video3-2">
<p class="fig-num">Video 3.2</p>

<p class="fig-title">Responding to KRI Values</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p class="vid-desc">[A large traffic light, with all of the lights off.]</p>

<p>Key risk indicators (KRIs) quantify the level of exposure to different risks. Depending on the level of risk that a KRI illustrates, management can respond in different ways.</p>

<p>One KRI for mortality risk could be the mortality rate among insureds for a given product.</p>

<p>If the value of this KRI is within acceptable limits and at a normal level, the company is likely not exposed to a significant level of risk.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The bottom light of the traffic light flashes.]</p>

<p>No managerial action is required because the indicator and its corresponding risks are under adequate control.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[Bottom light stops flashing green.]</p>

<p>One KRI for interest-rate risk could be the duration gap between the asset and liability portfolios.</p>

<p>If the value of this KRI is within acceptable limits but at an elevated level, the company may be exposed to an increased and potentially significant level of risk.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The middle light of the traffic light flashes amber.]</p>

<p>Management attention is required to determine if action needs to be taken in the near future.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[Bottom light stops flashing amber.]</p>

<p>One KRI for fraud risk could be the amount of financial losses due to fraudulent claims.</p>

<p>If the value of this KRI is past acceptable limits, the company may be exposed to a significantly high level of risk.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The top light of the traffic light flashes red.]</p>

<p>Immediate action is required by senior management to manage the risk exposure.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter3/page8.xhtml#video3-2" role="doc-backlink">Return to Video 3.2.</a></p>
</div>

<h2 class="ch-num">Chapter 4</h2>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure4-1">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 4.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">Sample Challenges of Acquiring Quality Data</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Appropriateness: Often easier to acquire general-purpose, less specialized data, especially for new products</p>

<p>Accuracy: Requires time and sufficiently large sets of data</p>

<p>Relevance: User needs can shift quickly</p>

<p>Timeliness: Quicker results often sacrifice accuracy</p>

<p>Interpretability: Greater detail usually requires more training to properly interpret</p>

<p>Accessibility: Privacy requirements and competitive advantage discourage data-sharing</p>

<p>Coherence: Ever-increasing volumes of useful data are harder to coordinate</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter4/page4.xhtml#figure4-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 4.1.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure4-2">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 4.2</p>

<p class="fig-title">Sample Normal Curve</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Illustration of a normal probability curve. The curve is symmetrical, with its highest point in the center, which represents the mean. The curve slopes down equally to either side. On either side, the portion of the curve outside of three standard deviations is marked as a tail.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter4/page6.xhtml#figure4-2" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 4.2.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure4-3">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 4.3</p>

<p class="fig-title">Sample Non-Normal Curve</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Illustration of a non-normal probability curve. The curve is asymmetrical. Its highest point is to the left of the center mean, and the curve’s slope falls off sharply to the left. The curve’s slope falls off more gradually to the right. On the left, the curve does not go outside three standard deviations. On the right, the portion of the curve outside three standard deviations is marked as the tail.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter4/page6.xhtml#figure4-3" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 4.3.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="video4-1">
<p class="fig-num">Video 4.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">Components of Financial Models</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>A financial model may involve complicated math, but the basic process is simple.</p>

<p>“Input”</p>

<p>“Approach”</p>

<p>“Output”</p>

<p>“Analysis”</p>

<p>Model inputs are the data that the model begins with—or, what the company already knows.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[An employee takes a sheet of paper labeled “Inputs” and places it on a flatbed scanner. The light on the scanner comes on. A note on a computer pops up, “Scan complete.”]</p>

<p>Choosing a modeling approach is choosing the right process for the task at hand.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[A small window open on an employee’s monitor shows a completed task bar with the label “Input Complete”. Next to the label are two icons labeled “De” and “St”. The employee clicks on the “St” icon; a loading bar pops up in the middle of the monitor, with the text “Loading Stochastic 4.51…”]</p>

<p>As the model runs, it provides model outputs of projected values.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[A printer prints a document, labeled out. An employee collects the document off the printer.]</p>

<p>The team can then conduct model analysis on the outputs to look for patterns and correlations.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[An employee enters a conference room and distributes printed handouts to other people at the table.]</p>

<p>So the basic interaction of a financial model’s components is simple—even if the details of those components are more complicated!</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter4/page3.xhtml#video4-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Video 4.1.</a></p>
</div>
</section>


</body></html>