<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/reset.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/fonts.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/video-player.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/ibooks.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/ibooks-alt.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Endnotes</title>
    

<meta charset="utf-8" />
 <meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="raw\endnotes.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4e5bae38-800e-f086-5956-94e3502e1752" />
</head>
<body>
<section class="section glossary" epub:type="part" role="doc-part">
<h1 class="chapter ens">Endnotes</h1>

<h2 class="en-ch">Chapter 2</h2>

<ol class="notes">
	<li id="loma371-ch2-en1">National Association of Insurance Commissioners, Risk Based Capital (National Association of Insurance Commissioners, 2019), 1, https://www.naic.org/<wbr />cipr_topics/<wbr />topic_risk_based_capital.htm (13 March 2019) <a class="return" href="../chapter2/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch2-span-25-static">Return to text.</a></li>
	<li id="loma371-ch2-en2">American Academy of Actuaries, Regulatory Capital Requirements of U.S. Life Insurers (American Academy of Actuaries, © 2014), 13-20, https://www.actuary.org/<wbr />sites/<wbr />default/<wbr />files/<wbr />files/<wbr />Regulatory_Capital_Requirements_US_Life_Insurers_6-17-14.pdf (13 March 2019). <a class="return" href="../chapter2/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch2-span-27-static">Return to text.</a></li>
	<li id="loma371-ch2-en3">David M. Pooser and Paul L. Walker, "Own Risk and Solvency Assessment: Origins and Implications for Enterprise Risk Management," Journal of Insurance Regulation 34, no. 9 (2015): 4-11, https://www.naic.org/<wbr />prod_serv/<wbr />JIR-ZA-34-09-EL.pdf (28 March 2019). <a class="return" href="../chapter2/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch2-span-31-static">Return to text.</a></li>
	<li id="loma371-ch2-en4">Diazreus, Dodd-Frank and Basel III: Implementation in the U.S., 1, https://diazreus.com/<wbr />dodd-frank-and-basel-iii-implementation-in-the-u-s/<wbr /> (16 April 2019) <a class="return" href="../chapter2/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch2-span-49-static">Return to text.</a></li>
</ol>

<h2 class="en-ch">Chaper 3</h2>

<ol class="notes">
	<li id="loma371-ch3-en1">The Institute of Internal Auditors, <em>IIA Position Paper: The Three Lines of Defense in Effective Risk Management and Control</em> (Altamonte Springs, Florida: The Institute of Internal Auditors, 2013), https://na.theiia.org/standards-guidance/Public%20Documents/PP%20The%20Three%20Lines%20of%20Defense%20in%20Effective%20Risk%20Management%20and%20Control.pdf (18 July 2019). <a class="return" href="../chapter3/page4.xhtml#loma371-ch3-span-11-static">Return to text.</a></li>
	<li id="loma371-ch3-en2">David M. Pooser and Paul L. Walker, Own Risk and Solvency Assessment: Origins and Implications for Enterprise Risk Management, <em>Journal of Insurance Regulation </em>34, no. 9 (2015): 10, https://www.naic.org/<wbr />prod_serv/<wbr />JIR-ZA-34-09-EL.pdf (3 June 2019). <a class="return" href="../chapter3/page5.xhtml#loma371-ch3-span-33-static">Return to text.</a></li>
	<li id="loma371-ch3-en3">Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), <em>Enterprise Risk Management—Integrating with Strategy and Performance, Executive Summary</em>, June 2017, 6, https://www.coso.org/<wbr />Documents/<wbr />2017-COSO-ERM-Integrating-with-Strategy-and-Performance-Executive-Summary.pdf (3 June 2019). <a class="return" href="../chapter3/page5.xhtml#loma371-ch3-span-35-static">Return to text.</a></li>
	<li id="loma371-ch3-en4">Institute of Risk Management, <em>A Risk Practitioners Guide to ISO 31000: 2018</em> (London, England: Institute of Risk Management, 2018), 10, https://www.theirm.org/<wbr />media/<wbr />3513119/<wbr />IRM-Report-ISO-31000-2018-v3.pdf (4 June 2019). <a class="return" href="../chapter3/page5.xhtml#loma371-ch3-span-37-static">Return to text.</a></li>
	<li id="loma371-ch3-en5">Institute of Operational Risk, “Operational Risk Sound Practice Guidance, Key Risk Indicators,” (Institute of Risk Management, 2010), 3-8, 17-18, https://www.ior-institute.org/<wbr />public/<wbr />IORKRIGuidanceNov2010.pdf (20 September 2019) <a class="return" href="../chapter3/page8.xhtml#loma371-ch3-span-72-static">Return to text.</a></li>
</ol>
</section>


</body></html>