<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/reset.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/fonts.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/video-player.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/ibooks.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/ibooks-alt.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/mathml.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Figure and Video Descriptions</title>
    
<meta charset="utf-8" />
 <meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="raw\descriptions.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4d4ffef7-bae8-91de-e7d4-1f3bf02b15d0" />
</head>
<body>
<section class="section descriptions" epub:type="part" role="doc-part">
<h1 class="chapter key">Figure and Video Descriptions</h1>

<h2 class="ch-num">Chapter 5</h2>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure5-1">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 5.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">Opposing Forces Affecting Product Development</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Four pairs of concepts, each one pushing against the other.</p>

<p>Concept Pair 1: Rapid Innovation vs. Limited Operational and Financial Resources</p>

<p>Concept Pair 2: Market Forces vs. Need for Disciplined Pricing</p>

<p>Concept Pair 3: Rapid Speed vs. Regulatory Compliance</p>

<p>Concept Pair 4: Customer Needs vs. Insurer Priorities and Capabilities</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page3.xhtml#figure5-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 5.1.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure5-2">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 5.2</p>

<p class="fig-title">Shelf Life of Life Insurance and Annuity Products</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>A bar chart showing average shelf life of insurance and annuity projects.</p>

<p>Insurance:</p>

<p>Indexed universal life 1.25 years</p>

<p>Term life 1.5 years</p>

<p>Variable universal life 3.5 years</p>

<p>Whole life 4.7 years</p>

<p>Annuity:</p>

<p>Indexed annuity 1.4 years</p>

<p>Variable annuity 1.6 years</p>

<p>Fixed annuity 4.8 years</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page3.xhtml#figure5-2" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 5.2.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure5-3">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 5.3</p>

<p class="fig-title">Product Complexity</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>A figure of three text boxes.</p>

<p>Box 1: Established Products, Generally Well Understood; generally lower risk</p>

<p>Yearly renewable term life insurance</p>

<p>Multiple-year term life insurance</p>

<p>Fixed whole life insurance</p>

<p>Universal life insurance</p>

<p>Single-premium immediate annuities</p>

<p>Box 2: Newer, Complex Products and Features; generally greater risk</p>

<p>Variable universal life insurance with secondary guarantee riders</p>

<p>Variable annuities with secondary death benefit guarantee riders</p>

<p>Variable annuities with secondary living benefit guarantee riders</p>

<p>Indexed annuities</p>

<p>Box 3: Combination Products; risk level varies.</p>

<p>Term life insurance with disability income insurance</p>

<p>Hybrid life and long-term care insurance products</p>

<p>Annuities with long-term care insurance</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page3.xhtml#figure5-3" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 5.3.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure5-4">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 5.4</p>

<p class="fig-title">Life Insurance Product Development Time by Product and Product Complexity</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Chart showing average product development time.</p>

<p>Term life products:</p>

<p>Rate change: 18 weeks</p>

<p>Revisions: 29 weeks</p>

<p>New product: 35 weeks</p>

<p>Whole life products:</p>

<p>Rate change: 22 weeks</p>

<p>Revisions: 31 weeks</p>

<p>New product: 45 weeks</p>

<p>Variable UL products:</p>

<p>Rate change: 27 weeks</p>

<p>Revisions: 44 weeks</p>

<p>New product: 50 weeks</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page3.xhtml#figure5-4" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 5.4.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure5-5">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 5.5</p>

<p class="fig-title">Product Development Process</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Arrows link the five steps of the product development process into an ongoing cycle.</p>

<p>Product Planning</p>

<p>Comprehensive Business Analysis</p>

<p>Technical Product Design</p>

<p>Product Introduction</p>

<p>Monitoring, Evaluation, and Feedback</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page4.xhtml#figure5-5" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 5.5.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure5-6">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 5.6</p>

<p class="fig-title">Product Planning in Product Development</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Shows the product development cycle. The Product Planning step is highlighted with a list of the following subcategories:</p>

<p>Idea Generation</p>

<p>Idea Screening</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page4.xhtml#figure5-6" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 5.6.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure5-7">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 5.7</p>

<p class="fig-title">Comprehensive Business Analysis in Product Development</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Shows the product development cycle. The Comprehensive Business Analysis step is highlighted with a list of the following subcategories:</p>

<p>Market Analysis</p>

<p>Product Design Objectives</p>

<p>Feasibility Study</p>

<p>Marketing Plan</p>

<p>Marketing Projections</p>

<p>Product Proposal</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page4.xhtml#figure5-7" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 5.7.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="video5-1">
<p class="fig-num">Video 5.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">Product Portfolios and Product Mixes</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Many insurance companies have similar, but not identical, product portfolios. Let’s take a look at two sample companies.</p>

<p>Spinward’s product portfolio contains multiple types of life insurance and annuity products.</p>

<p><strong>Product Portfolio</strong></p>

<p><strong>Life Insurance:</strong></p>

<p>Term life insurance</p>

<p>Whole life insurance</p>

<p><strong>Annuities:</strong></p>

<p>Fixed deferred annuities</p>

<p>Immediate annuities</p>

<p>Upriver’s product portfolio is similar to Spinward’s, but not exactly the same.</p>

<p><strong>Product Portfolio</strong></p>

<p><strong>Life Insurance:</strong></p>

<p>Term life insurance</p>

<p><strong>Annuities</strong></p>

<p>Fixed deferred annuities</p>

<p>Variable deferred annuities</p>

<p>Immediate annuities</p>

<p>The product mix for each company measures the volume for each line of business, such as by the proportion of reserves set aside for each.</p>

<p><strong>Product Mix (Spinward)</strong></p>

<p><strong>Life Insurance:</strong></p>

<p>34% in term life insurance reserves</p>

<p>14% in whole life insurance reserves</p>

<p><strong>Annuities</strong></p>

<p>46% in fixed deferred annuity reserves</p>

<p>6% in immediate annuity reserves</p>

<p><strong>Product Mix (Upriver)</strong></p>

<p><strong>Life Insurance:</strong></p>

<p>20% in term life insurance reserves</p>

<p><strong>Annuities</strong></p>

<p>35% in fixed deferred annuity reserves</p>

<p>42% in variable deferred annuity reserves</p>

<p>3% in immediate annuity reserves</p>

<p>So we can see that a product portfolio tells us what a company offers, while the product mix also measures how much.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page3.xhtml#video5-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Video 5.1.</a></p>
</div>

<h2 class="ch-num">Chapter 6</h2>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure6-1">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 6.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">Technical Product Design in Product Development</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Shows the product development cycle. The Technical Product Design step is highlighted with a list of the following subcategories:</p>

<p>Establishing a Financial Design, including Components of the Financial Design</p>

<p>Testing a Financial Design</p>

<p>Budgeting and Scheduling</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page3.xhtml#figure6-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 6.1.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure6-2">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 6.2</p>

<p class="fig-title">Calculating Premium Amounts</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>A visual equation: Charge for operating expenses + contribution to company earnings + charge for cost of benefits – investment earnings = required premiums and other considerations from customers</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page3.xhtml#figure6-2" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 6.2.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure6-3">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 6.3</p>

<p class="fig-title">Product Introduction in Product Development</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Shows the product development cycle. The Product Introduction step is highlighted with a list of the following subcategories:</p>

<p>Product Implementation, including Day 1 Functionality and Day 2 Functionality</p>

<p>Product Launch</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page4.xhtml#figure6-3" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 6.3.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure6-4">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 6.4</p>

<p class="fig-title">Monitoring, Evaluation, and Feedback in Product Development</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Shows the product development cycle. The Monitoring, Evaluation, and Feedback step is highlighted. There are no subcategories.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page5.xhtml#figure6-4" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 6.4.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure6-5">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 6.5</p>

<p class="fig-title">Sources of Adverse and Favorable Deviations</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Graphic representation of when deviations are favorable or adverse.</p>

<p>When actual values for company revenues are greater than assumed, the deviation is favorable. When actual values for company revenues are lower than assumed, the deviation is adverse.</p>

<p>When actual values for benefit payments are greater than assumed, the deviation is adverse. When actual values for benefit payments are lower than assumed, the deviation is favorable.</p>

<p>When actual values for company expenses are greater than assumed, the deviation is adverse. When actual values for company expenses are lower than assumed, the deviation is favorable.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page5.xhtml#figure6-5" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 6.5.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="video6-1">
<p class="fig-num">Video 6.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">Before and After Product Launch</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p class="vid-desc">[A rocket sits on a launch pad.]</p>

<p>Product implementation and product launch are separate phases in the product introduction process — but they’re not completely separate.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[Two engineers in hardhats look at a blueprint.]</p>

<p>Product implementation begins early, as a company prepares everything it needs to launch the product, from information systems to advertising.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[A person sits at a control console with a headset on. He’s talking into the headset and moving dials on the console.]</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The rocket launches. The person at the console celebrates.]</p>

<p>However, product implementation doesn’t end when the product is launched. For example, a product might not be approved in some states at the time of launch, receiving approval in those states later.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The rocket flies past a satellite dish.]</p>

<p>The implementation phase lasts as long as is necessary — just hopefully not too long!</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page4.xhtml#video6-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Video 6.1.</a></p>
</div>
</section>


</body></html>