<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/reset.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/fonts.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/video-player.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/ibooks.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/ibooks-alt.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/mathml.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Endnotes</title>
    

<meta charset="utf-8" />
 <meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="raw\endnotes.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:79f21f66-eae8-21a6-9e06-c0879356f46e" />
</head>
<body>
<section class="section glossary" epub:type="part" role="doc-part">
<h1 class="chapter ens">Endnotes</h1>

<h2 class="en-ch">Chapter 5</h2>

<ol class="notes">
	<li id="loma371-ch5-en1">Society of Actuaries and LIMRA, <em>Understanding the Product Development Process of Individual Life Insurance and Annuity Companies</em> (Society of Actuaries, © 2017), 82-83, https://www.limra.com/<wbr />en/<wbr />research/<wbr />research-abstracts/<wbr />2018/<wbr />soa-study-understanding-the-product-development-process-of-individual-life-insurance-and-annuity-companies-2018/<wbr /> (20 May 2019). <a class="return" href="../chapter5/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-19-static">Return to text.</a></li>
	<li id="loma371-ch5-en2"><span class="non-ibid">Society of Actuaries and LIMRA, <em>Understanding the Product Development Process of Individual Life Insurance and Annuity Companies</em> (Society of Actuaries, © 2017), 82-83 </span> <span class="ibid">Society of Actuaries and LIMRA, <em>Understanding the Product Development Process of Individual Life Insurance and Annuity Companies</em> (Society of Actuaries, © 2017), 82-83, https://www.limra.com/<wbr />en/<wbr />research/<wbr />research-abstracts/<wbr />2018/<wbr />soa-study-understanding-the-product-development-process-of-individual-life-insurance-and-annuity-companies-2018/<wbr /> (20 May 2019).</span> <a class="return" href="../chapter5/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-21-static">Return to text.</a></li>
	<li id="loma371-ch5-en3"><span class="non-ibid">Ibid., 82-83</span> <span class="ibid">Society of Actuaries and LIMRA, <em>Understanding the Product Development Process of Individual Life Insurance and Annuity Companies</em> (Society of Actuaries, © 2017), <span class="ibid">133-151</span>, https://www.limra.com/<wbr />en/<wbr />research/<wbr />research-abstracts/<wbr />2018/<wbr />soa-study-understanding-the-product-development-process-of-individual-life-insurance-and-annuity-companies-2018/<wbr /> (20 May 2019).</span> <a class="return" href="../chapter5/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-30-static">Return to text.</a></li>
</ol>

<h2 class="en-ch">Chaper 6</h2>

<ol class="notes">
	<li id="loma371-ch6-en1">Albert E. Easton and Timothy E. Harris, <em>Actuarial Aspects of Individual Life Insurance and Annuity Contracts</em>, 2<sup>nd</sup> ed. (Winsted, CT: ACTEX Publications, 2010), 53-56. <a class="return" href="../chapter6/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch6-span-7-static">Return to text.</a></li>
</ol>
</section>


</body></html>