<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Glossary</title>
    
<meta charset="utf-8" />
 <meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="raw\glossary.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:5fec8981-7a2f-c5ba-f30b-2c613d179c7b" />
</head>
<body>
<section class="section glossary" epub:type="part" role="doc-part">
<h1 class="chapter gloss">Glossary</h1>

<dl epub:type="glossary" role="doc-glossary">
	<dt id="ch10-gt-accelerateddeathbenefit"><dfn>accelerated death benefit</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A supplemental life insurance policy benefit that typically allows the policyowner to elect to receive all or part of the policy’s death benefit before the insured’s death if certain conditions are met. Also known as a living benefit. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch10-gt-accidentaldeathbenefit"><dfn>accidental death benefit</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A supplemental life insurance policy benefit that requires the insurer to pay a specified amount of money in addition to the policy’s basic death benefit if an insured dies as a result of an accident. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-accumulatedvalue"><dfn>accumulated value</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For a deferred annuity contract, the total amount of premiums and earnings, less the amount of any withdrawals or charges assessed by the insurer. Also known as account value. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-accumulationperiod"><dfn>accumulation period</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For a deferred annuity, the period that begins on the contract’s purchase date and runs until either the beginning of the payout period or the date when the owner terminates the contract. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-accumulationunit"><dfn>accumulation unit</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An ownership share in a selected subaccount of a separate account held during the accumulation period. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-actuarialassumption"><dfn>actuarial assumption</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An estimated value used in financial modeling, typically for the purposes of risk management or technical product design. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-actuarialcontrolcycle"><dfn>actuarial control cycle</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A process of actuarial practices expressed as a process of three repeated steps: define the need, design the solution, and monitor the results. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-actuarialmemorandum"><dfn>actuarial memorandum</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The document in an Actuarial Opinion and Memorandum (AOM) consisting of a formal report containing documentation supporting the conclusion expressed in the actuarial opinion. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-actuarialopinion"><dfn>actuarial opinion</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The document in an Actuarial Opinion and Memorandum (AOM) which states that the company’s reserves are adequate for the anticipated cash flows arising from the insurer’s contractual obligations, given the assets supporting them. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-actuarialopinionandmemorandum"><dfn>Actuarial Opinion and Memorandum (AOM)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A formal asset-liability management (ALM) report that consists of two documents: an actuarial opinion and an actuarial memorandum. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-actuary"><dfn>actuary</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A technical expert in insurance, annuities, and financial instruments who applies mathematical knowledge to industry and company statistics to calculate various financial values. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-administrativecharge"><dfn>administrative charge</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A charge an insurer levies to cover the cost of issuing certain types of life insurance or annuity contracts, making administrative changes to such contracts, preparing contract owner statements, and performing general maintenance activities. Also known as administrative expense charge, administrative fee, contract fee, or service fee. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-administrativesupervision"><dfn>administrative supervision</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A legal condition under which an insurer may be required to obtain the insurance commissioner’s permission before taking any of a variety of specified actions. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch6-gt-adversedeviation"><dfn>adverse deviation</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In product operations, a deviation that produces a decrease in actual product profitability compared to assumed product profitability. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page5.xhtml#loma371-ch6-span-58" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-annualresetmethod"><dfn>annual reset method</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For fixed indexed annuities, an index-crediting mechanism that involves comparing the value of the reference index at the start of each contract year with the value at the end of the year. For the next year, the starting value is reset to the ending value from the previous year. Also known as ratchet method. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-annualstatement"><dfn>Annual Statement</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A financial report that every insurer in the United States must file annually, with interim quarterly reports, with the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) and the insurance regulatory organization in each state in which the insurer conducts business to assist regulators with monitoring insurer solvency. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-annuitant"><dfn>annuitant</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The person whose lifetime the insurance company uses to determine the amount and duration of periodic income payments payable under an annuity contract. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-annuitization"><dfn>annuitization</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The process of converting the accumulated value of a deferred annuity into the annuity’s periodic income payments. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-annuitydue"><dfn>annuity due</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A series of equal periodic payments for which the payment occurs at the beginning of each payment period. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-annuitymortalitytable"><dfn>annuity mortality table</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of mortality table that shows the projected mortality rates and survival rates for a population of annuitants only. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-antiselectionrisk"><dfn>antiselection risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk of loss or adverse product performance due to the tendency of individuals who believe they have a greater-than-average likelihood of loss to seek insurance protection to a greater extent than do those who believe they have an average or less-than-average likelihood of loss. Also known as adverse selection risk. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-assetadequacyanalysis"><dfn>asset adequacy analysis</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A broad actuarial practice undertaken to ensure that the assets backing reserves meet established standards. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-assetbasedcommissionschedule"><dfn>asset-based commission schedule</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For annuity sales, a commission schedule that calculates commissions as a percentage of the accumulated value of a deferred annuity contract’s funds. In addition, commissions are payable as long as the contract remains in force, even if the contract owner stops making premium payments. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-assetliabilitymanagement"><dfn>asset-liability management (ALM)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In an actuarial context, the practice of coordinating the administration of an insurer’s asset portfolio (its investments) with the administration of its liability portfolio (its obligations to customers) so as to achieve the best possible effects. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-assetportfolio"><dfn>asset portfolio</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In asset-liability management (ALM), the portfolio in which the insurer holds securities and other invested assets. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-assetrisk"><dfn>asset risk (C-1 risk)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The contingency risk that the insurer will lose money—other than from movements in market interest rates—on its investments in stocks, bonds, mortgages, and real estate. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-assumedmortality"><dfn>assumed mortality</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The hypothetical or assumed number or rate of deaths in a given group of people. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-backendsalescharge"><dfn>back-end sales charge</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A sales assessed when an investor sells a security. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-baselcommitteeonbankingsupervision"><dfn>Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A membership organization comprising representatives of bank supervisory authorities and central banks from countries with prominent economies whose mission is to provide a forum for discussing bank supervision matters worldwide. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-baseliii"><dfn>Basel III</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A comprehensive set of financial supervision reform measures, developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS), and designed to strengthen the regulation, supervision, and risk management of the banking, insurance, and securities sectors globally. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-basicmortalitytable"><dfn>basic mortality table</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of mortality table that has no margin built into the rates, is used for technical product design, and provides realistic mortality rates so that an insurer can best estimate future mortality costs. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-beneficiary"><dfn>beneficiary</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The person or legal entity who may receive benefits accrued or values remaining in an annuity contract upon the death of the contract owner or annuitant. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-bigdata"><dfn>big data</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A large amount of information gathered from various sources, in various formats, and at a rapid speed. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-businessprocessrisk"><dfn>business process risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk of a loss related to the processes used by an organization to create, sell, and service a product. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-businessrisk"><dfn>business risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk that changes in a company’s external environment will affect its operations. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-cap"><dfn>cap</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For fixed indexed annuities, an upper limit, expressed as a percent, on the rate of a reference index’s gain in value that the insurer credits to the annuity contract as interest. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-cashflowmatching"><dfn>cash-flow matching</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A risk management strategy that involves identifying the patterns of cash outflows for insurance products and matching those cash outflows with a selection of assets that will produce a similar pattern of cash inflows. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-cashflowtesting"><dfn>cash flow testing</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The use of simulation modeling to project the cash flows associated with an insurance company’s assets and liabilities as of a given valuation data and to compare the timing and amounts of asset and liability cash flows at various times after the valuation date. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch10-gt-cashsurrendervalue"><dfn>cash surrender value</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The amount of the cash value that a policyowner is entitled to receive from the insurer upon surrender of the policy. Also known as the surrender value or surrender benefit. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-cohort"><dfn>cohort</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A defined group of people. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-competitionrisk"><dfn>competition risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk that an insurer’s relative market position will be adversely affected by the actions of its direct competitors, changes in industry structure, or changes in standards for the use of technology. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-competitiveintelligence"><dfn>competitive intelligence</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The systematic collection and analysis of publicly available information about competitors and ongoing developments in the marketing environment. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page4.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-60" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-compoundingperiod"><dfn>compounding period</dfn></dt>
	<dd>Each of the interest periods used in future value calculations. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-comprehensivebusinessanalysis"><dfn>comprehensive business analysis</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An evaluation of all the factors that are likely to affect the design, production, pricing, marketing, and sales potential of a new product. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page4.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-62" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-conditionallyvestedcommission"><dfn>conditionally vested commission</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A commission that becomes vested only after an agent reaches a certain age or number of years with the company. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-conditionaltailexpectation"><dfn>conditional tail expectation (CTE)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A statistical measure of the severity of tail risk, calculated as the average of all the values within a specified range of a probability distribution. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-conferenceofsponsoringorganizationsofthetreadwaycommission"><dfn>Conference of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A consortium of self-regulatory member organizations that provides frameworks and guidance on enterprise risk management, internal control, and fraud defense. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-confidencelimit"><dfn>confidence limit</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An expression of the probability that a specific outcome will fall within a stated range. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch6-gt-contingencypricingstructure"><dfn>contingency pricing structure</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A variation in premium rate structures for individual life insurance products that gives an insurer mechanisms for adjusting the company’s charges for an in-force product to reflect the company’s financial results for the product. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch6-span-15" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-contingencyrisks"><dfn>contingency risks (C-risks)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In the United States, four officially recognized categories of risk that regulators have identified as being crucial to an insurer’s cash flows and that directly affect an insurer’s capital adequacy. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-continuationcoverage"><dfn>continuation coverage</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The coverage provided to the customers of a failed insurance company under a specific kind of reinsurance arrangement. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-contractmaintenancecharge"><dfn>contract maintenance charge</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For variable (unit-linked) life insurance and annuity products, a periodic charge assessed to cover general maintenance costs, such as preparation of account and other statements. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-contractowner"><dfn>contract owner</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The person or other entity who owns and exercises all the rights and privileges of an annuity contract. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-contractualreserves"><dfn>contractual reserves</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The amount that, together with future premiums and investment income, an insurer estimates it will need to pay policy benefits as they come due. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-costaccountingsysteym"><dfn>cost accounting systeym</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An accounting subsystem that accumulates expense data for the dual purposes of effective cost control and accurate product design activities. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-costaccumulation"><dfn>cost accumulation</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The process of capturing all company costs and classifying them in meaningful ways. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-costallocation"><dfn>cost allocation</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The accounting process of assigning an indirect cost to a particular cost object according to a formal procedure. Also known as expense allocation. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-costallocationmethod"><dfn>cost allocation method</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The formal procedure used to assign indirect costs. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-costing"><dfn>costing</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The process used during technical product design to set a product’s expense projections. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-costobject"><dfn>cost object</dfn></dt>
	<dd>Any purpose for which a business measures costs. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch6-gt-costofbenefits"><dfn>cost of benefits</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For an insurance or annuity product, the value of the contractually required benefits that the product promises to pay; the projected cost of benefits generally equals the sum of each potential benefit payment to a customer multiplied by the expected probability that the benefit will be payable. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch6-span-12" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-costofcapital"><dfn>cost of capital</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The overall percentage cost that an insurer pays for the funds it employs. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-creditingrateresolution"><dfn>crediting-rate resolution</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A formal declaration made by the board of directors of the rate of interest the insurer will credit on customers’ money held in interest-bearing products. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-creditrisk"><dfn>credit risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk that (1) a borrower defaults on debt obligations by failing to make payments of principal or interest on time, or (2) a lender sustains a financial loss based on an adverse change in a borrower’s creditworthiness. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch10-gt-criticalillnessbenefit"><dfn>critical illness benefit</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An accelerated death benefit under which the insurer agrees to pay a portion of the policy’s face amount to the policyowner if the insured suffers from one of a number of specified diseases. Also known as a dread disease (DD) benefit. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-currencyrisk"><dfn>currency risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk arising from changes in currency exchange rates. Also known as foreign exchange risk. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-currentinterestcreditingrate"><dfn>current interest-crediting rate</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The interest rate an insurer declares and pays if a fixed-rate contract remains in force for a specified period of time. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch10-gt-currentmortalityrate"><dfn>current mortality rate</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In universal life (UL) products, the monthly mortality rate actually used to calculate the monthly mortality charge; is generally substantially lower than the guaranteed maximum mortality rate. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-cyberrisk"><dfn>cyber risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk of a financial loss, business disruption, theft of proprietary information, or damage to the reputation of an organization caused by failure in a process, procedure, or technology involving interconnected systems. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-datascientist"><dfn>data scientist</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An individual who uses techniques from statistics and computer programming to (1) identify patterns and trends in data and (2) create mathematical models that forecast business outcomes. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch6-gt-day1functionality"><dfn>Day 1 functionality</dfn></dt>
	<dd>Product administration and IT elements that a company must have in place and functioning when a product is first made available for sale. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page4.xhtml#loma371-ch6-span-42" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch6-gt-day2functionality"><dfn>Day 2 functionality</dfn></dt>
	<dd>Product administration and IT elements that are necessary at some future date to service and administer an insurance product, but which can be implemented after the product has been launched. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page4.xhtml#loma371-ch6-span-43" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-defaultrisk"><dfn>default risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In the context of investing, the type of credit risk that involves the risk that an insurer will not receive the cash flows to which it is entitled because a party with which the insurer has a financial arrangement is late with payments or entirely fails to fulfill its debt obligations. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-deferredannuity"><dfn>deferred annuity</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An annuity under which periodic income payments are scheduled to begin more than one annuity period after the date on which the annuity was purchased. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-dependentvariable"><dfn>dependent variable</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A variable that reacts to changes in other variables. By convention, dependent variables are labeled y. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-depositbasedcommissionschedule"><dfn>deposit-based commission schedule</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For annuity sales, a commission schedule that pays commissions only on premium payments made by annuity owners. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch6-gt-derivativesecurity"><dfn>derivative security</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A financial security, such as a stock option, that derives its value from another security. Also known as a derivative. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch6-span-13" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-deterministicmodeling"><dfn>deterministic modeling</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A form of quantitative modeling that simulates the real-world interactions of a stated set of input variables and produces a single set of output variables. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-directexpense"><dfn>direct expense</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A product expense incurred for or physically traceable to a specified life insurance or annuity product. Also known as traceable cost. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-discountingperiod"><dfn>discounting period</dfn></dt>
	<dd>Each of the interest periods used in present value calculations. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-distributionrisk"><dfn>distribution risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk of financial losses resulting from activities and resources involved in making products available to customers. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-diversifiablerisk"><dfn>diversifiable risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>Risk that is specific to an individual asset or issuer. Also known as nonsystematic risk and specific risk. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-diversification"><dfn>diversification</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A risk management strategy for spreading risk by investing in different assets having different risk profiles. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-downgraderisk"><dfn>downgrade risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In the context of investing, the type of credit risk that involves the risk of deterioration in a credit rating assigned to an issuer of a debt security. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-duration"><dfn>duration</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A statistic that measures the price sensitivity of an asset to changes in interest rates; can be defined as the time-weighted value of expected cash inflows, expressed in years. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-durationgapreport"><dfn>duration gap report</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An asset-liability management (ALM) report that provides a snapshot of the insurer’s asset-liability match at the time of the report. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-durationmatching"><dfn>duration matching</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A risk management strategy that involves matching the duration statistics for fixed-income assets such as bonds with the duration statistics for the insurance company liabilities that the assets support. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-dynamicassumptions"><dfn>dynamic assumptions</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In financial modeling, variables that change over time, but in a way that is predictable and formula driven. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-dynamicfinancialanalysis"><dfn>dynamic financial analysis (DFA)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The use of simulation modeling and multiple scenario testing to project an insurer’s assets, liabilities, and owners’ equity as of a given valuation date and to compare the values of those variables at various times after the valuation date. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-dynamicsolvencytesting"><dfn>dynamic solvency testing (DST)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An application of dynamic financial analysis (DFA) that involves projecting an insurer’s capital as of a given valuation date and comparing the projected amounts of capital at various times after the valuation date. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-earnings"><dfn>earnings</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For an insurance or annuity product, the amount that a product adds to the insurance company’s capital in a given period; takes into account noncash adjustments, such as a product’s contribution to capital. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-economiccapital"><dfn>economic capital</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An estimate of the amount of capital that a financial institution calculates to internally manage its own risks. Also known as internal capital. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-enterpriseriskmanagement"><dfn>enterprise risk management (ERM)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A system that identifies and quantifies risks from both potential threats and potential opportunities and manages these risks in a coordinated approach that supports the organization’s strategic objectives. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-equityrisk"><dfn>equity risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk of a loss arising from movements in the direction of the stock, or equity, markets. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-ethicalbehavior"><dfn>ethical behavior</dfn></dt>
	<dd>Behavior that meets accepted standards of moral conduct. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-eventrisk"><dfn>event risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk that a single, unforeseen occurrence will negatively affect a company’s financial position. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-expectedmortality"><dfn>expected mortality</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The number or rate of deaths statistically likely to occur in a group of people at a given age. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-expensebudget"><dfn>expense budget</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A financial plan of action that identifies the types and amounts of expenses a company expects to incur during an accounting period. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-expenseloading"><dfn>expense loading</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The amount charged to cover each policy’s share of the expenses of operation. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-expenserisk"><dfn>expense risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk that actual expenses will differ from the amounts assumed during product design. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-experiencedata"><dfn>experience data</dfn></dt>
	<dd>Internal, proprietary data about the past behavior of certain variables such as mortality rates and expenses. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-experiencemortalityrate"><dfn>experience mortality rate</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The historical rate of death in a given group of people. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-experiencestudy"><dfn>experience study</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A compilation of data representing company or industry-wide historical experience with a specified modeling variable. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-extrapolation"><dfn>extrapolation</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In financial modeling, the process of estimating values outside of a known range on the basis of other values derived from direct observation. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch6-gt-favorabledeviation"><dfn>favorable deviation</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In product operations, a difference between actual and assumed product values that produces an increase in actual product profitability relative to assumed product profitability. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page5.xhtml#loma371-ch6-span-60" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-feasibilitystudy"><dfn>feasibility study</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An evaluation of whether a company has the capability to take a new product to market. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page4.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-67" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-financialassistanceandsolvencytrackingsystem"><dfn>Financial Assistance and Solvency Tracking (FAST) System</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In the United States, a collection of analytical solvency tools used to evaluate the solvency of insurers that includes a ratio-based evaluation system established by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC); based on (1) ratio analysis of an insurer’s most recent financial statements and (2) analysis of a five-year history of specific aspects of the insurer’s financial statements. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-financialconditionexamination"><dfn>financial condition examination</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In the United States, the part of an onsite formal regulatory audit that investigates two broad aspects of an insurer’s operations: (1) whether the insurer’s accounting records are accurate and the insurer is being operated on a sound and lawful basis, and (2) whether the insurer’s financial and business profiles contain any apparent hazards to the insurer’s solvency. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-financialmodel"><dfn>financial model</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A computer-based mathematical model that approximates the operation of real-world financial processes. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-firstyearcommission"><dfn>first-year commission</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A commission on life insurance policies that is payable when a contract is purchased and is equal to a stated percentage of the premium the insurer receives during the first policy year. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-fixedamountoption"><dfn>fixed amount option</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A guaranteed annuity payout option in which the contract owner chooses the amount of income that the insurer will pay periodically; the insurer pays the same amount on a regular basis until the contract value is exhausted. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-fixedannuity"><dfn>fixed annuity</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An annuity contract under which the insurer guarantees (1) the minimum interest rate that it will apply to any accumulated value and (2) the minimum amount of the annuity payments that it will pay. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-fixedassumptions"><dfn>fixed assumptions</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In financial modeling, variables for which actuaries assign a specific value or proportional relationship, and the value or proportion remains unchanged throughout multiple iterations of a model. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-fixedexpense"><dfn>fixed expense</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An expense that remains relatively constant regardless of the number of policies or contracts sold or the level of operating activity. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-fixedfundoption"><dfn>fixed fund option</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For variable life insurance and annuity products, a fund option which guarantees a fixed rate of interest for a specified period of time; premiums allocated to a fixed fund option are invested with the general account. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-fixedindexedannuity"><dfn>fixed indexed annuity (FIA)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of annuity that offers the contract owner specified principal and interest rate guarantees, as well as the possibility of additional earnings based on changes in an index by linking crediting on the accumulation value to a published index of stock market prices. Also known as an indexed annuity. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-fixedperiodoption"><dfn>fixed period option</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A guaranteed annuity payout option under which the insurer makes annuity payments for a specified period of time regardless of whether the annuitant is living. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch10-gt-flexiblepremium"><dfn>flexible premium</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For life insurance products, a form of premium payment in which a customer can make payments to the insurer at various times so as to increase the savings element in a contract that was established with a single initial premium; such premiums are used with universal life insurance. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-floorprovision"><dfn>floor provision</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For fixed indexed annuities, a provision which specifies that the contract’s values are not reduced if the linked index decreases in value during a measurement period. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-foreigninvestmentrisk"><dfn>foreign investment risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk of loss when investing in foreign companies if the government takes actions such as nationalization or taxation. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-fraudrisk"><dfn>fraud risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk of a loss when one party intentionally deceives another party to induce that party to part with something of value, usually confidential information or money. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-frontendsalescharge"><dfn>front-end sales charge</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A one-time transaction charge imposed when an investor purchases shares in subaccount investment funds. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-fullcosting"><dfn>full costing</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An accounting method for estimating product-related expenses in which direct and indirect expenses are both counted. Also known as absorption costing. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-fundoperatingexpensecharge"><dfn>fund operating expense charge</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A periodic charge that a fund manager assesses to cover its costs of managing variable subaccount assets, buying and selling securities, and administering trades. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-futuresstudies"><dfn>futures studies</dfn></dt>
	<dd>Studies that identify possible developments that could disrupt trends—thereby changing the extrapolation of the values from the past—and then produce an array of possibilities for future values based on these developments. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-futurevalue"><dfn>future value (FV)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The amount that an original sum is expected to be worth at a specified future date, given a specified interest rate. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-futurevalueinterestfactor"><dfn>future value interest factor (FVIF)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The future value of $1.00 at a given interest rate for a stated number of periods. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-futurevalueinterestfactorstable"><dfn>future value interest factors (FVIF) table</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A table that lists future value interest factors. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-generalaccount"><dfn>general account</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For an insurer, a portfolio of assets that supports the company’s contractual obligations to owners of the company’s guaranteed products, including whole life insurance, fixed-rate annuities, and other nonvariable products. Also known as general account portfolio. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-generalmanagementrisk"><dfn>general management risk (C-4 risk)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The contingency risk of losses resulting from the insurer’s ineffective general business practices or from the need to pay a special assessment to cover another insurer’s unsound business practices. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-generationalmortalitytable"><dfn>generational mortality table</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of mortality table in which mortality rates are dependent on both the person’s age and the year the person attains that age. Also known as a dynamic mortality table. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-geopoliticalrisk"><dfn>geopolitical risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk of loss due to unexpected changes in international relationships, political alignments, socioeconomics, or cultural shifts. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-governance"><dfn>governance</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The combination of people, rules, controls, and policies put in place to provide oversight and direction for the organization’s operations and actions so that the organization can achieve its strategic objectives. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-guaranteedannuitypayoutoption"><dfn>guaranteed annuity payout option</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of annuity payout option that provides regular payments of either a designated amount or for a designated period and are not linked to any life expectancy or mortality risk. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-guaranteedinterestcreditingrate"><dfn>guaranteed interest-crediting rate</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The minimum interest rate an insurer must pay on a contract’s accumulated value. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-guaranteedlifetimewithdrawalbenefit"><dfn>guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefit (GLWB)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An annuity living benefit rider that guarantees minimum withdrawals to a variable annuity owner for life without being required to annuitize the contract. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch10-gt-guaranteedmaximummortalityrate"><dfn>guaranteed maximum mortality rate</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For universal life (UL) products, a monetary amount specified in the contract which sets an upper limit on the mortality charge. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-guaranteedminimumaccumulationbenefit"><dfn>guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit (GMAB)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A variable annuity living benefit rider that guarantees a minimum protected value for a variable annuity contract even if its accumulated value declines because of poor investment performance. Usually, the contract owner must wait for a specified period before the guaranteed value becomes available. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-guaranteedminimumdeathbenefit"><dfn>guaranteed minimum death benefit (GMDB)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A variable annuity contract feature which generally guarantees that the contract’s death benefit will at least equal a specified minimum amount. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-guaranteedminimumincomebenefit"><dfn>guaranteed minimum income benefit (GMIB)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An annuity living benefit rider that guarantees a minimum protected value that can be converted into periodic income payments—usually after a waiting period of seven to ten years—even if the annuity’s accumulated value declines because of poor investment performance. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-guaranteedminimumwithdrawalbenefit"><dfn>guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (GMWB)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An annuity living benefit rider that guarantees a minimum protected value against which a variable annuity contract owner may make annual withdrawals of a specified amount, without charge, even if the contract’s accumulated value falls below the protected value as a result of poor investment performance. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-guarantyassociation"><dfn>guaranty association</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An organization that operates under the supervision of the state insurance commissioner to protect policyowners, insureds, beneficiaries, annuitants, payees, and assignees against losses that might result from the impairment or insolvency of an insurer that operates in that state. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-heapedcommissionschedule"><dfn>heaped commission schedule</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For life insurance sales, a commission schedule that features relatively high first-year commissions and lower renewal commissions. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch6-gt-hedgecosts"><dfn>hedge cost</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An expense for trading and holding derivative securities. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch6-span-14" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-hedging"><dfn>hedging</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A risk management strategy that involves holding an asset with characteristics that counterbalance one or more of the risks in the investor’s risk array. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-highwatermarkmethod"><dfn>high water mark method</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For fixed indexed annuities, an index-crediting mechanism that compares the value of the reference index at the beginning of the contract term with the highest value—or high water mark—that the index reaches on any contract anniversary date during the term. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-humanresourcesrisk"><dfn>human resources risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk that a loss will occur as a result of a company’s failure to properly train or evaluate prospective and current employees. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-hurdlerate"><dfn>hurdle rate</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The minimum percentage rate of return on capital that an insurer must achieve to cover its cost of capital. Also known as required return. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-ideageneration"><dfn>idea generation</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The process of searching for new product ideas that are consistent with the company’s overall product development strategy and the needs of its target markets. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page4.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-59" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-ideascreening"><dfn>idea screening</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An activity in which a team quickly and inexpensively evaluates new product ideas to separate workable ideas from those that have little or no potential. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page4.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-61" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-immediateannuity"><dfn>immediate annuity</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An annuity contract under which periodic annuity payments begin no more than one year after the contract is purchased. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-independentvariable"><dfn>independent variable</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A variable that influences the behavior of another variable. By convention, independent variables are labeled x. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch6-gt-indeterminatepremiumstructure"><dfn>indeterminate premium structure</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A variation in premium rate structures for individual life insurance products that allows the company to periodically reset premium rates on products while guaranteeing customers that premiums will not exceed a maximum specified level. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch6-span-16" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-index"><dfn>index</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A statistical measurement system that tracks the performance of a group of similar investments. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-indexcredits"><dfn>index credits</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For fixed indexed annuities, the monetary credits that are awarded to the contract’s value. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-indexedcrediting"><dfn>indexed crediting</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For fixed indexed annuities, guarantees that the insurance company will periodically award monetary credits, known as index credits, to the contract’s accumulation value on a specified basis related to a specified external index of stock market price movements. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch10-gt-indexeduniversallifeinsurance"><dfn>indexed universal life (IUL) insurance</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of universal life insurance that offers certain principal value and earnings guarantees, but also offers the possibility of additional earnings by linking the cash value to a published index. Also called equity indexed universal life insurance. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-indirectexpense"><dfn>indirect expense</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An expense that cannot be traced to or that is not incurred for one specific product. Also called common cost. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-initialinvestment"><dfn>initial investment</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For a new product, the amount of capital that an insurer must invest to establish the product. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-inflationrisk"><dfn>inflation risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk that the price of goods and services will increase over time, causing a decline in the value of investments and returns. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dd><span class="return"></span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-insolvency"><dfn>insolvency</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An insurer’s inability to meet its financial obligations on time. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-insuranceregulatoryinformationsystem"><dfn>Insurance Regulatory Information System (IRIS)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In the United States, a tool within the FAST system that monitors the financial condition of insurers with a view toward preventing insolvencies which uses 12 standardized financial ratios to identify insurance companies that are likely to experience financial difficulties. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-interestcreditingrate"><dfn>interest-crediting rate</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The interest rate credited to products on behalf of customers. Also known as crediting rate. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-interestcreditingstrategies"><dfn>interest-crediting strategies</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The formulas and criteria a company uses to set the interest rates it will credit for interest-sensitive products. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-interestrateassumption"><dfn>interest-rate assumption</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For an insurance product, the assumed rate of investment earnings on the product in a specified period after investment expenses have been covered. Also known as assumed interest rate. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-interestraterisk"><dfn>interest-rate risk (C-3 risk)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The contingency risk that movements in market interest rates will cause an insurer’s assets to lose value or its liabilities to gain value. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-interestsensitivecashflowtesting"><dfn>interest-sensitive cash flow testing</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of cash flow testing in which an insurer analyzes the effects of various interest-rate scenarios on cash flows. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-interestspread"><dfn>interest spread</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The difference between the rate of return an insurer earns on its investments and the current interest-crediting rate. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-internalaudit"><dfn>internal audit</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An examination of the company’s records, policies, and procedures conducted by a person who works for the organization, typically in the compliance area. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-internalcontrol"><dfn>internal control</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The process a company takes to encourage adherence to its policies, promote operating efficiency, and safeguard the organization’s assets. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-internalrateofreturn"><dfn>internal rate of return (IRR)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For a life insurance or an annuity product, the interest rate at which the product’s net cash flows must be discounted, using present value techniques, in order to exactly repay the insurer’s initial investment in the product. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-internationalassociationofinsurancesupervisors"><dfn>International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An association that works globally to (1) improve regulatory supervision of the insurance industry, (2) maintain efficient, fair, safe, and stable insurance markets, (3) protect policyowners, (4) promote well-regulated insurance markets, and (5) support global financial stability. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-internationalorganizationforstandardization"><dfn>International Organization for Standardization (ISO)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An independent, non-governmental international standards-setting organization that consists of national standard bodies of 164 countries <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-inthemoney"><dfn>in the money (ITM)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A situation in which the benefits available from ownership options or riders are more favorable for the customer than the benefits available under the contract itself. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-investment"><dfn>investment</dfn></dt>
	<dd>Any use of a company’s resources that is intended to generate a profit or positive return of some type. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-investmentactivityreport"><dfn>investment activity report</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An asset-liability management (ALM) report that specifies the details of all investment portfolio transactions, including all asset acquisitions and all dispositions of assets from the investment portfolio through sales, prepayments (redemptions), or repayment at maturity. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch6-gt-investmentpolicy"><dfn>investment policy</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A policy that actuaries and investment experts set to manage the investment risk associated with new products; specifies limits on the asset types and the proportions of the assets the company will use to support a product, as well as any strategies needed to balance a new product’s unmanaged liability risks. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch6-span-11" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-investmentportfolioperformancereview"><dfn>investment portfolio performance review</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A quarterly asset-liability management (ALM) report that summarizes the company’s investment performance for the board of directors and the ALM committee. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-investmentrisk"><dfn>investment risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The possibility that an investment may fail to generate some or all of an expected profit or that the insurer will lose all or part of the original investment. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-jointandsurvivorannuity"><dfn>joint and survivor (J&amp;S) annuity</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A life annuity payout option that provides periodic income payments to two or more annuitants. The periodic income payments are based on the life expectancies of the annuitants and continue until both or all of the annuitants have died. Also known as joint and last survivor annuity. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-jointlifeannuity"><dfn>joint life annuity</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A life annuity payout option that typically covers more than one life and guarantees periodic payments until one of the covered individuals dies, and then pays nothing more. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-keyriskindicator"><dfn>key risk indicator (KRI)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A quantitative metric that indicates the level of operational risk exposures at a given point of time in order to help companies forecast future occurrences. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-lapse"><dfn>lapse</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The termination of a life insurance policy as a result of nonpayment of the policy premium. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-lapserate"><dfn>lapse rate</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The ratio of business in force that terminates for nonpayment of premium during a given period to the total business in force at the beginning of that period. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-lawoflargenumbers"><dfn>law of large numbers</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A mathematical concept which states that, under normal circumstances, the more times a particular event is observed, the more likely it is that the observations will approximate the "true" probability that the event will occur. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-legalandtaxreview"><dfn>legal and tax review</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An evaluation of any legal or tax concerns associated with a new product. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page4.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-68" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch10-gt-levelannualpremium"><dfn>level annual premium (LAP)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For life insurance products, any set of equal annual payments having a present value equal to a given single premium. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch10-gt-levelpremium"><dfn>level premium</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For life insurance products, a form of premium payment in which periodic premium payments are equal in amount and are generally paid monthly, quarterly, or annually; typically, level premiums purchase multiyear term life insurance and whole life insurance policies. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-liabilityportfolio"><dfn>liability portfolio</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In asset-liability management (ALM), the portfolio in which the insurer represents the insurer’s obligations to customers. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-lifeannuity"><dfn>life annuity</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An annuity option that guarantees the insurer will provide periodic income payments for only as long as the annuitant lives. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-lifeannuitypayoutoption"><dfn>life annuity payout option</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of annuity payout option in which the insurer promises to make regular income payments for a period related to the life expectancy of one or more annuitants. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-lifeexpectancy"><dfn>life expectancy</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The average number of years of life remaining for a group of people. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-lifeinsurancemortalitytable"><dfn>life insurance mortality table</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of mortality table that shows the projected mortality rates and survival rates for a population of life insureds only. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-liquidation"><dfn>liquidation</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In an insurance receivership, a process by which a receiver either transfers all of the insurer’s business—including its reserve liabilities and assets—to other insurers or sells the insurer’s assets and terminates the insurer’s business. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-liquidity"><dfn>liquidity</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The condition of having enough cash—or assets that can be readily converted into cash for an approximation of their underlying value—available to meet obligations as they come due. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-liquidityrisk"><dfn>liquidity risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk that an asset might not be easily sold for its underlying value. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch10-gt-longtermcareinsurancebenefit"><dfn>long-term care (LTC) insurance benefit</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An accelerated death benefit under which the insurer agrees to pay monthly benefits to a life insurance policyowner if the insured requires constant care—in his own home or a qualified facility—for a specified medical condition. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-marginalcosting"><dfn>marginal costing</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An accounting method for estimating product-related expenses in which only direct expenses are counted. Also known as direct costing. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-marketanalysis"><dfn>market analysis</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An evaluation of all environmental factors that might affect sales of a proposed product. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page4.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-65" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-marketingcommittee"><dfn>marketing committee</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A senior management group whose primary role is to provide overall guidance and control of the product development process. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-34" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-marketingplan"><dfn>marketing plan</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A document that defines a company’s product, price, distribution, and promotion strategies for reaching potential customers and meeting their needs. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page4.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-69" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-marketingprojections"><dfn>marketing projections</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In a comprehensive business analysis, preliminary sales and financial forecasts that include estimates of potential unit sales, revenues, costs, and profits for a proposed product. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page4.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-70" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-marketrisk"><dfn>market risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk of losses or reduced investment returns caused by movements in overall market conditions or in a specific sector of the market. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-minimumcapitalstandard"><dfn>minimum capital standard</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The difference between a company’s total assets and total liabilities. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-modelhazardousconditionregulation"><dfn>Model Hazardous Condition Regulation</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A model law developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) that describes the mandatory corrective actions an insurance commissioner can order an insurer to take to improve its financial condition. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-modelsupervisionact"><dfn>Model Supervision Act</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A model law developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) that provides details about a state insurance department’s authority to require administrative supervision of an insurer. Also known as the Administrative Supervision Model Act. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-mortalityandexpenseriskcharge"><dfn>mortality and expense (M&amp;E) risk charge</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A periodic charge assessed on a variable (unit-linked) life insurance policy or annuity contract that compensates the insurer for the mortality and expense risks inherent in the assumptions made when designing the product. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-mortalitycredit"><dfn>mortality credit</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A monetary value that an insurer (1) allotted to payments for an annuity, and (2) did not pay in full due to the death of the annuitant. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-mortalityexperience"><dfn>mortality experience</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The number of deaths that actually occur in a given group of people. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-mortalityimprovementscale"><dfn>mortality improvement scale</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A published set of recommended adjustments to mortality tables. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-mortalitymargin"><dfn>mortality margin</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A provision for conservatism in mortality risk projections. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-mortalityrate"><dfn>mortality rate</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The rate at which death occurs among a defined group of people during a specified period, usually one year. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-mortalityrisk"><dfn>mortality risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk that actual mortality—the incidence of death in a specified group of people—will differ from expectations. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-mortalitytable"><dfn>mortality table</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A statistical table that shows the number of people in a cohort—or group of people—and the number or rate of deaths for the cohort at given ages—that is, how many deaths may be expected at each age. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-mortalitytablewithprojection"><dfn>mortality table with projection</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of mortality table in which the rates have been adjusted using the projection method to show future changes in mortality. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch6-gt-negativetailscenarios"><dfn>negative tail scenario</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A highly unfavorable but highly unlikely scenario identified in a stochastically modeled product design as a potential outcome. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch6-span-10" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch10-gt-netamountatrisk"><dfn>net amount at risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For a universal life (UL) insurance policy, the amount of the insurer’s funds that would be required at any given time to pay the policy death benefit; this amount is generally equal to the difference between the UL policy’s death benefit and its cash value. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-netcashflow"><dfn>net cash flow</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For an insurance or annuity product, a product’s total cash inflows generated from premiums, investments, and other sources minus the total cash outflows generated by such items as commissions, expenses, and benefit payments; focuses only on cash. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-netpresentvalue"><dfn>net present value</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For an investment project, a monetary amount that is generally calculated by subtracting the initial investment in the project from the present value of the project’s earnings over a future period, usually the entire expected life of the project. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-newproductproject"><dfn>new product project</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The most complex type of product development project, requiring the company to develop new product features and also requiring comprehensive regulatory filings. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-28" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-newproductrisk"><dfn>new product risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>Risk that arises from developing and supporting new life insurance and annuity products. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-8" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-nondiversifiablerisk"><dfn>nondiversifiable risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>Risk that affects all assets in an economic system and is therefore not specific to an individual asset or issuer. Also known as systematic risk. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch10-gt-nonforfeiturevalue"><dfn>nonforfeiture value</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The benefit that an insurer guarantees to a policyowner if the insurance contract lapses. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-nonguaranteedelement"><dfn>nonguaranteed element (NTE)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A product feature that allows an insurer to reward customers when the insurer has experienced or anticipates it will experience favorable deviations from its assumptions, or, conversely, allows an insurer to charge customers more when the insurer has experienced or anticipates it will experience unfavorable deviations from its assumptions. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-nonnormaldistribution"><dfn>non-normal distribution</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An asymmetrical probability distribution in which generally the number of values on one side of the mean is greater than the number of values on the other side of the mean. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-nonvestedcommission"><dfn>nonvested commission</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A commission that is payable only if the agent still represents the company when the commission becomes due. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-normaldistribution"><dfn>normal distribution</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A probability distribution in which the number of values that are less than the mean is the same as the number of values greater than the mean, and in which the values are dispersed in a specific proportion. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-omnichannelservicestrategy"><dfn>omnichannel service strategy</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A strategy to seamlessly provide a similar, high-quality customer experience across multiple, integrated communication platforms. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-33" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-operationalrisk"><dfn>operational risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk of financial loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, controls, systems, and people. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-optimizationmodeling"><dfn>optimization modeling</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A form of modeling that focuses on finding an optimum solution to several simultaneous equations. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-ordinaryannuity"><dfn>ordinary annuity</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A series of equal periodic payments made at the end of each payment period over a fixed amount of time. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-outsourcing"><dfn>outsourcing</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The practice of hiring an external vendor to perform specified operations or functions. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-ownriskandsolvencyassessment"><dfn>Own Risk and Solvency Assessment (ORSA)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A solvency program that requires insurers to regularly analyze all material risks that could affect the insurer’s ability to meet its financial obligations to its policyowners. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-participationpercentageprovision"><dfn>participation percentage provision</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For fixed indexed annuities, the provision that stipulates the rate at which the excess of the reference index growth percentage is shared between the insurer and the contract owner. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-payee"><dfn>payee</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The person or entity designated to receive the periodic income payments under an annuity contract. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-payoutperiod"><dfn>payout period</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For an annuity contract, the period during which the insurer makes periodic income payments to the payee. Also known as the liquidation period. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-pointestimate"><dfn>point estimate</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In financial modeling, an estimate that is assigned a single value. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-pointtopointmethod"><dfn>point-to-point method</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For fixed indexed annuities, an index-crediting mechanism that compares the value of the index at the start of the annuity contract term to its value at the end of the term to determine what, if any, excess interest has accrued because of a change in the index. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-policydividends"><dfn>policy dividends</dfn></dt>
	<dd>Returns of excess premium paid to the owners of individual participating life insurance policies. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-policyfiling"><dfn>policy filing</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The act of submitting a policy contract form and any other legally required forms and documents to the appropriate state insurance department for approval. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-36" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-policyholderbehaviorrisk"><dfn>policyholder behavior risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk that policyholder actions or decisions will adversely affect product performance. Also known as customer behavior risk. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-populationmortalitytable"><dfn>population mortality table</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of mortality table that shows mortality statistics for all members of a given population. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-presentvalue"><dfn>present value (PV)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The amount of a sum that, if invested at a specified interest rate on a specified date, would grow to equal a specified future amount. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-presentvalueinterestfactor"><dfn>present value interest factor (PVIF)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The present value of $1.00 discounted at a given interest rate for a stated number of periods. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-presentvalueinterestfactorstable"><dfn>present value interest factors (PVIF) table</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A table that lists present value interest factors. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-priceappreciation"><dfn>price appreciation</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An increase in the market value of an invested asset. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-pricedepreciation"><dfn>price depreciation</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A decrease in the market value of an invested asset. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch10-gt-pricingpremium"><dfn>pricing premium</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The monetary amount per unit of coverage that an insurer must collect from customers to cover any portion of the product’s cost of benefits or the company’s costs for supporting the product not covered by investment earnings. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-pricingrisk"><dfn>pricing risk (C-2 risk)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The contingency risk that an insurer’s actual experience with pricing factors, such as mortality rates, operating expenses, or policyholder behavior, will differ significantly from the actuarial assumptions used in the product’s financial design, causing the insurer to lose money on its products. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-principlesbasedreserving"><dfn>principles-based reserving (PBR)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An approach to reserve valuation in which actuarial assumptions, and therefore reserve levels, change as the economic environment and other risk factors change. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-probabilitydistribution"><dfn>probability distribution</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A data distribution that includes both data values and the probability of observing each value. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-productdesignobjectives"><dfn>product design objectives</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For life insurance or annuity products, specifications that document the product’s basic characteristics, such as its benefits, any limits on the contract amount or the applicant’s age at issue, any special features, the commission range, and any settlement options. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page4.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-66" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-productdevelopment"><dfn>product development</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The process companies use to create new products or modify existing products. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch6-gt-productdevelopmentbudget"><dfn>product development budget</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A project planning document that shows the costs, such as staffing requirements, associated with each planned work activity and the anticipated revenue from the new product. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch6-span-17" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-productdevelopmentteam"><dfn>product development team</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of cross-functional team that usually performs hands-on development of a new product. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-35" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-productmix"><dfn>product mix</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In the context of product development, a company’s total assortment of products within each line of business according to a monetary measure of business volume, such as premiums collected, reserves, or in the case of life insurance, face amount in force. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-10" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-productportfolio"><dfn>product portfolio</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In the context of product development, the array of all products a company offers for sale, categorized by line of business. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-9" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-productproposal"><dfn>product proposal</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A document used to present a product idea to an internal team that decides whether to allocate company resources toward developing the product idea. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page4.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-73" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-productrevisionproject"><dfn>product revision project</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A product development project that involves broader changes than does a rate change project but fewer changes than does a new product project. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-27" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-profitability"><dfn>profitability</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A company’s overall degree of success in generating returns for its owners; the term refers both to a company’s ability to generate profit and its ability to increase the company’s wealth. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-profitmargin"><dfn>profit margin</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For a life insurance or an annuity product, the present value of profits divided by the present value of premiums. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-projectionmethod"><dfn>projection method</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A method of modifying tabular mortality that involves multiplying the tabular mortality rates by a chosen percentage. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch6-gt-projectschedule"><dfn>project schedule</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A project planning timetable that shows the times required for the completion of planned tasks and the relationships among these tasks. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch6-span-18" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-proprietarymortalitytable"><dfn>proprietary mortality table</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of mortality table that a single insurance company develops for internal use, based largely on its experience with its own customers. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-prospectivevaluationmethod"><dfn>prospective valuation method</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A method of determining a life insurance product’s cash value that looks at the product’s future cash flows. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch6-gt-provisionforadversedeviation"><dfn>provision for adverse deviation (PAD)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In product design, any amount included in the assumption values to provide an allowance for unexpected negative outcomes. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter6/page5.xhtml#loma371-ch6-span-59" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-publishedmortalitytable"><dfn>published mortality table</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of mortality table that is based on the mortality of the public at large or a broad cross-section of the population and that is made available to the general public through printed documents and electronic sources. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-randomnumbergenerator"><dfn>random number generator</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A software application that automatically identifies a pattern of values that would be produced by sampling from a given probability distribution. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-randomsample"><dfn>random sample</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A statistical sample in which each possible value is equally likely to be selected. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-rangeestimate"><dfn>range estimate</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In financial modeling, an estimate that provides a range of possible outcome values. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-ratechangeproject"><dfn>rate change project</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A project that involves changing rates for adjustable policy elements, such as administrative fees and mortality and expense charges. Also known as repricing project. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page3.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-26" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-rateofreturn"><dfn>rate of return</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The earnings on an investment expressed as a percentage of the principal. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-ratingagencycapital"><dfn>rating agency capital</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The minimum standard of capital that an insurer must maintain in order to receive a favorable quality rating from a specific rating agency. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-receivership"><dfn>receivership</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An arrangement in which an individual—known as a receiver or conservator—is appointed by a court to hold and administer an insolvent insurer’s assets and liabilities. Also known as conservatorship. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-referenceindex"><dfn>reference index</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The index specified in a fixed indexed annuity contract; variations in the index determine whether the contract’s accumulated value is awarded interest credits. Also known as the benchmark index. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-refinance"><dfn>refinance</dfn></dt>
	<dd>To make new borrowing arrangements, usually because of a drop in market interest rates. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-regulatorycapital"><dfn>regulatory capital</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The legal minimum standard of capital that an insurer must maintain in order to be considered solvent by the regulatory authorities. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-regulatoryrisk"><dfn>regulatory risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk created by changes in the regulatory environment. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-rehabilitation"><dfn>rehabilitation</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In an insurance receivership, a legal condition in which regulators take over operation of the insolvent company from management and attempt to restore the company to solvent. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-reinsurance"><dfn>reinsurance</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of insurance that one insurance company purchases from another insurance company. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-reinvestmentraterisk"><dfn>reinvestment-rate risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk that a change in interest rates will lead to lower income when owners reinvest their funds. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-renewalcommission"><dfn>renewal commission</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A commission on life insurance policies that remain in force that is equal to a stated percentage of each premium paid for a specified number of years after the first policy year. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-reputationrisk"><dfn>reputation risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk of loss resulting from damage to or a decline in an insurer’s image, which can lead to the loss of customers’ trust. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-reservevaluation"><dfn>reserve valuation</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A formal actuarial process of establishing a value for an insurer’s reserves. Also known as reserving. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-return"><dfn>return</dfn></dt>
	<dd>Any reward, profit, or compensation an investor hopes to earn for taking a risk. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-returnofpremiumprovision"><dfn>return of premium provision</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For fixed indexed annuities, a provision which specifies that the insurer promises to pay the contract owner the full value of premiums—minus any partial withdrawals—upon surrender if the contract has not built an accumulated value greater than the value promised in the provision. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-ridercharge"><dfn>rider charge</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The additional charge to purchase a variable annuity guarantee rider. Also known as a rider premium. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-rightsizing"><dfn>rightsizing</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The elimination of nonessential employees or jobs within an organization. Also known as downsizing. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-risk"><dfn>risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The possibility of an unexpected outcome. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-riskappetite"><dfn>risk appetite</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The amount and type of risk that an organization is prepared to seek in the pursuit of profits or other strategic objectives. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-riskbasedcapitalforinsurersmodelact"><dfn>Risk-Based Capital for Insurers Model Act</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) model law that establishes the risk-based capital (RBC) requirements and enables state insurance departments to identify potentially impaired insurers. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-riskbasedcapitalrequirements"><dfn>risk-based capital (RBC) requirements</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A set of capital requirements developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) to determine the minimum capital level of an insurer, based on the insurer’s size and risk profile, as identified by a specific risk-weighted formula based on four classifications of risks, called contingency risks. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-riskcommittee"><dfn>risk committee</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A senior management group whose primary role is to provide overall guidance and control of an insurer’s risk management efforts. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-riskmanagement"><dfn>risk management</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The process of systematically identifying, assessing, and minimizing the negative impact of risk. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-riskmap"><dfn>risk map</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A map that categorizes each risk identified for a particular operational or business process along two dimensions—(1) impact or significance and (2) likelihood. Also known as risk heat map. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-riskreturntradeoff"><dfn>risk-return tradeoff</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The relationship between risk and return that can be summarized as follows: all other factors being equal, the greater the risk associated with an investment, the greater the potential return on the investment, and the lower the risk associated with an investment, the lower the potential return on the investment. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-risktaxonomy"><dfn>risk taxonomy</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The classification and aggregation of all risks across an organization based on each risk’s core, defining characteristics. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-risktolerance"><dfn>risk tolerance</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An organization’s willingness and readiness to bear a risk to achieve its objectives. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-salesrevenue"><dfn>sales revenue</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The total dollar volume of sales, calculated by multiplying the sales volume by the average price per unit. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page4.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-72" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch5-gt-salesvolume"><dfn>sales volume</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The number of units of product sold. <a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter5/page4.xhtml#loma371-ch5-span-71" role="doc-backlink">Return to text.</a></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-scenariotesting"><dfn>scenario testing</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In financial modeling, a method of evaluating modeling results that involves entering different sets of data into a model and then determining how changes in the input data affect the model’s output data. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-selectandultimatemortalitytable"><dfn>select and ultimate mortality table</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of mortality table that combines coordinated sets of select mortality rates and ultimate mortality rates. Also known as an aggregate mortality table. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-selectmortalityperiod"><dfn>select mortality period</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A specified period of time following an underwriting evaluation of a given individual. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-selectmortalitytable"><dfn>select mortality table</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of mortality table that shows the expected mortality rates of people who have recently been underwritten for insurance policies. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-sensitivityanalysis"><dfn>sensitivity analysis</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A method of measuring the responsiveness of the outputs produced by a financial model to changes in the values of the model’s input variables. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-separateaccount"><dfn>separate account</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For an insurer, a portfolio of assets that supports such products as variable life insurance and variable annuities. Also known as separate account portfolio or segregated funds portfolio. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-setbackmethod"><dfn>setback method</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A method of modifying tabular mortality rates that consists of showing future decreases in mortality for people of a given age by using the tabular mortality rate for a younger age. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-sexdistinctmortalitytable"><dfn>sex-distinct mortality table</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of mortality table that shows different mortality rates for males and females. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-simulationmodeling"><dfn>simulation modeling</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The use of a real-world process model and extrapolation to emulate the behavior of a process over time. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-singlelifeannuity"><dfn>single life annuity</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A life annuity payout option that provides periodic income payments in an amount based on both the single premium and the annuitant’s life expectancy. Under this option, the insurer provides no benefit payments after the annuitant’s death. Also known as a life only annuity and a straight life annuity. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-singlelifeannuitywithperiodcertain"><dfn>single life annuity with period certain</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A life annuity payout option that guarantees periodic income payments throughout the lifetime of the annuitant and also guarantees that the payments will continue for at least a specified period. If the annuitant dies before the end of the specified period, the insurer provides the periodic income payments to the beneficiary until the end of the period. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-singlelifewithrefundannuity"><dfn>single life with refund annuity</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A life annuity payout option that guarantees specified periodic payments throughout the lifetime of a named individual—the annuitant—and also guarantees that a refund will be made if the annuitant dies before the total of the periodic payments made equals the amount paid for the annuity. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch10-gt-singlepremium"><dfn>single premium</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For life insurance products, a form of premium payment in which one lump sum covers all of the financial considerations for the life of the contract; typically, one-year term life insurance policies are purchased with a single premium. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-solvency"><dfn>solvency</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An insurer’s ability to meet its financial obligations on time. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-solvencyii"><dfn>Solvency II</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A European-sponsored solvency standard for insurance companies, designed to support solvency testing and solvency supervision in the public interest. Also known as the EU Directive on the Taking-up and Pursuit of the Business of Insurance and Reinsurance. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-solvencylaws"><dfn>solvency laws</dfn></dt>
	<dd>Laws designed to ensure that insurance companies are financially able to meet their debts and to pay policy benefits when they come due. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-solvencyregulation"><dfn>solvency regulation</dfn></dt>
	<dd>Insurance regulation that addresses the need for insurance companies to be financially stable and capable of paying obligations and disbursing benefits when they are due. Also known as prudential regulation. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-spreadcompression"><dfn>spread compression</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The narrowing of an insurer’s interest spread. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch7-gt-spreadexpansion"><dfn>spread expansion</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The widening of an insurer’s interest spread. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 7.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-standardcost"><dfn>standard cost</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A cost estimate representing the average amount of a given type of expenditure for normal business operations. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-standardvaluationlaw"><dfn>Standard Valuation Law (SVL)</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An NAIC model law that (1) imposes minimum requirements on the size of insurance and annuity reserves and (2) establishes guidelines insurers must follow when calculating their reserves. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-staticmortalitytable"><dfn>static mortality table</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of mortality table that has not been adjusted to account for future changes in mortality. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-stochasticassumptions"><dfn>stochastic assumptions</dfn></dt>
	<dd>In financial modeling, variables that are selected randomly from a specified statistical distribution applied across multiple simulations or scenarios. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-stochasticmodeling"><dfn>stochastic modeling</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A form of modeling in which an automatic process randomly assigns values to specified input data in order to create a large number of scenarios, conduct numerous process iterations as needed, and produce output data that can be described in the form of a probability distribution. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-stockholderdividends"><dfn>stockholder dividends</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A portion of a stock insurer’s capital paid—in cash or in additional shares of stock—to the owners of the insurer’s stock. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-strategyrisk"><dfn>strategy risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk that a particular strategy selected by an insurer to grow sales, market share, profits, or distribution will not produce the desired results and instead lead to losses. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-surrender"><dfn>surrender</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A transaction in which the owner of a cash value life insurance policy or a deferred annuity chooses to receive the contract’s monetary value before the contract matures. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-surrendercharge"><dfn>surrender charge</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A penalty charge imposed when the owner of a cash value life insurance policy surrenders the policy for its cash surrender value, or if the owner of a deferred annuity contract surrenders the contract within a stated number of years after it was purchased. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-surrenderrate"><dfn>surrender rate</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The ratio of the number of contracts surrendered during a given period to the total number of contracts in force at the beginning of that period. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-survivalrate"><dfn>survival rate</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The percentage of people within a group who have attained a given age and are expected to be alive at their next birthday. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-tabularmortalityrate"><dfn>tabular mortality rate</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A mortality rate shown in a mortality table. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-tailrisk"><dfn>tail risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The risk associated with values or scenarios in the tails at the end of a probability distribution. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-technicalproductdesign"><dfn>technical product design</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The phase in the product development process in which a product’s financial structure is created. Also known as product design. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch3-gt-threelinesofdefense"><dfn>three lines of defense</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A comprehensive, systematic approach to enhancing communication on risk management and controls by assigning clear responsibilities and roles to each of the following lines: (1) operational management, (2) risk management and compliance, and (3) internal audit. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 3.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-trendanalysis"><dfn>trend analysis</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A form of technical analysis that projects the future movement of specified variables based on historical patterns. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-ultimatemortalityperiod"><dfn>ultimate mortality period</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The period of time after the select mortality period has ended. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-ultimatemortalitytable"><dfn>ultimate mortality table</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of mortality table that shows the expected mortality rates of people who have not recently been underwritten for insurance policies. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-underwritingphilosophy"><dfn>underwriting philosophy</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A set of objectives that guides all of an insurer’s underwriting actions when selecting risk. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch2-gt-underwritingrisk"><dfn>underwriting risk</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The specific risk that insurers assume through the insurance and annuity contracts they underwrite. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 2.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-unisexmortalitytable"><dfn>unisex mortality table</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of mortality table that shows a single set of mortality rates to be used for both males and females. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-unitcost"><dfn>unit cost</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The amount of incurred expense attributable to a single measured amount of product. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch10-gt-unitofcoverage"><dfn>unit of coverage</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A basic amount of coverage that insurers use when calculating premium rates for their products. For life insurance, a unit of coverage usually is $1,000 of coverage. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch10-gt-universallifeinsurance"><dfn>universal life (UL) insurance</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A form of cash value life insurance that is characterized by its flexible premiums, its flexible face amount, its flexible death benefit amount, and its separation of the three primary policy elements—mortality charges, interest rate, and expense charges. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch1-gt-valuation"><dfn>valuation</dfn></dt>
	<dd>The process of calculating the monetary value of a company’s assets, liabilities, and capital for accounting and financial reporting purposes. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 1.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch8-gt-valuationmortalitytable"><dfn>valuation mortality table</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of mortality table that has a margin built into the mortality rates, is used to calculate policy reserves, and is inherently more conservative than a basic mortality table. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 8.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch4-gt-variable"><dfn>variable</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An item of data whose numerical value varies. <span class="return">See Module 1, Chapter 4.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-variableannuity"><dfn>variable annuity</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An annuity contract under which the amount of the accumulated value and the amount of the annuity payments fluctuate in accordance with the performance of the selected investment funds. The contract owner bears most or all of the risk of losses from unprofitable investments. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-variableexpense"><dfn>variable expense</dfn></dt>
	<dd>An expense amount that varies in direct proportion to some variation in a specified level of operating activity. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch10-gt-variableuniverallifeinsurance"><dfn>variable univeral life (VUL) insurance</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A type of universal life insurance that combines the premium and death benefit flexibility of universal life insurance with the investment flexibility and risk of variable life insurance. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-vestedcommission"><dfn>vested commission</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A commission that is guaranteed payable to an agent whether or not the agent represents the company when the commission becomes due. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch10-gt-waiverofpremiumfordisabilitybenefit"><dfn>waiver of premium for disability benefit</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A supplemental life insurance policy benefit under which the insurer promises to give up its right to collect premiums that become due while the insured is disabled according to the policy or rider’s definition of disability. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch10-gt-waiverofpremiumforpayorbenefit"><dfn>waiver of premium for payor benefit</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A supplemental life insurance policy benefit which provides that the insurer will waive its right to collect a policy’s renewal premiums if the payor—the person paying the policy premiums—dies or becomes totally disabled. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 10.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch9-gt-withdrawal"><dfn>withdrawal</dfn></dt>
	<dd>A transaction in which (1) the owner of a life insurance policy elects to receive a portion of the policy’s cash value while the policy is in force, or (2) the owner of a deferred annuity contract elects to receive a portion of the contract’s accumulated value during the accumulation period. Also known as partial surrender or policy withdrawal. <span class="return">See Module 3, Chapter 9.</span></dd>
	<dt id="ch11-gt-yieldspreadprovision"><dfn>yield spread provision</dfn></dt>
	<dd>For fixed indexed annuities, a provision which states that the insurer always deducts a specified percentage from the growth in the reference index. <span class="return">See Module 4, Chapter 11.</span></dd>
</dl>
</section>


</body></html>