<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/reset.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/fonts.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/video-player.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/ibooks.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/ibooks-alt.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/mathml.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/mathml.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Introduction</title>
    
<meta charset="utf-8" />
 <meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="fm\page4.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a0c02bf9-b816-0836-d930-e34ae6eed294" />
</head>
<body epub:type="frontmatter">
<section class="fm" epub:type="introduction" id="loma371-fm-section-4" role="doc-introduction">
<h2 epub:type="title" id="loma371-fm-h2-3">Introduction</h2>

<p class="txt-ni" id="loma371-fm-p-72">The purpose of <em>LOMA 371—Risk Management and Product Development for Life Insurance Companies</em> is to describe the relationship between risk management and product development and design in life insurance companies. Important topics include the risks insurers face and the strategies insurers use to manage these risks, solvency standards, financial modeling, the product development process, mortality tables and assumptions, incorporating investment earnings and operating expenses into technical product design, and technical product design for life insurance and annuity products.</p>

<p class="txt-ni" id="loma371-fm-p-73">Enrollment in the course includes access to an online Course Portal, from which learners access everything they need to study and prepare for the course examination. The Course Portal organizes the assigned text material into convenient modules—chapter clusters that help to focus the learning process by breaking up the course content into meaningful sections. In addition to the assigned study materials, the Course Portal provides access to an array of blended learning resources, including multimedia features designed to enhance the learning experience. The Course Portal provides access to</p>

<ul id="loma371-fm-ul-2">
	<li id="loma371-fm-li-5">
	<p id="loma371-fm-p-74">Interactive e-book and PDF versions of the assigned text</p>
	</li>
	<li id="loma371-fm-li-6">
	<p id="loma371-fm-p-75">Interactive Practice Questions and a Sample Exam with optional answer choice feedback</p>
	</li>
	<li id="loma371-fm-li-7">
	<p id="loma371-fm-p-76">A library of animated videos to accompany the text</p>
	</li>
	<li id="loma371-fm-li-8">
	<p id="loma371-fm-p-77">Recommended study plans to help you set goals and manage your learning experience</p>
	</li>
</ul>

<p class="txt-ni" id="loma371-fm-p-78">Students enrolled in the version of the course that features self-proctored modularized exams will also return to the Course Portal to take each end-of-module exam.</p>

<p id="loma371-fm-p-79">Students preparing to take the examination for LOMA 371 will find that the assigned study materials include many features designed to help learners more easily understand the course content, organize their study, and prepare for the examination. As we describe each of these features, we give you suggestions for studying the material.</p>

<ul class="list" id="loma371-fm-ul-3">
	<li id="loma371-fm-li-9">
	<p id="loma371-fm-p-80"><strong>Learning Objectives. </strong>Each chapter lists the chapter’s learning objectives to help you focus your studies. Before reading each chapter, review these learning objectives. Then, as you read the chapter, look for material that will help you meet the learning objectives. The interactive version of the Practice Questions and Sample Exam questions (accessible from the Course Portal) are linked to the learning objectives to give you an idea of how the learning objective might be measured on an examination, as well as help you assess your mastery of the learning objectives.</p>
	</li>
	<li id="loma371-fm-li-10">
	<p id="loma371-fm-p-81"><strong>Chapter Outline.</strong> Each chapter contains an outline of the chapter. Review this outline to gain an overview of the major topics that will be covered; then scan through the chapter to become familiar with how the information is presented. By looking at the headings, you can gain a preview of how various subjects in each chapter relate to each other.</p>
	</li>
	<li id="loma371-fm-li-11">
	<p id="loma371-fm-p-82"><strong>Figures and videos.</strong> We include many static figures and animated videos throughout the text to illustrate and bring a real world perspective to the text’s discussion of selected topics. Information contained in these figures and videos may be tested on the examination for the course.</p>
	</li>
	<li id="loma371-fm-li-12">
	<p id="loma371-fm-p-83"><strong>Glossary and Key Terms. </strong>This text defines key terms that apply to the text material and, where appropriate, reviews key terms previously presented in LOMA courses. Each key term is emphasized with bold italic type when the term is defined and is included in a list of key terms at the end of each chapter. All key terms and their definitions also appear in the text’s comprehensive glossary as well. As you read each chapter, pay special attention to the key terms.</p>
	</li>
	<li id="loma371-fm-li-13">
	<p id="loma371-fm-p-84"><strong>Interactive Practice Questions and Sample Exam.</strong> Within the e-book, interactive Practice questions appear at the end of each chapter. The same interactive Practice Questions appear in the Course Portal. These questions include answer-choice explanations to help you learn the course content and prepare for the examination. Interactive Sample Exams appropriate for your chosen enrollment type appear in the Course Portal – you may choose feedback mode, which include answer-choice explanations, or timed mode, which prepares you for the time constraints of the actual exam.</p>
	</li>
</ul>

<h3 id="loma371-fm-h3-3">Using the Latest Study Materials</h3>

<p id="loma371-fm-p-85">LOMA may periodically revise the assigned study materials for this course. To ensure that you are studying from the correct materials, check the current assignment in the course’s description at http://learning.loma.org or on the Course Portal. This is especially important if you are studying from a printed version of the text, as it may not reflect the latest changes.</p>

<p id="loma371-fm-p-86">LOMA maintains a list of text corrections on our website. Before beginning your studies, be sure to review the Text Corrections for this course to learn about important updates or corrections to the assigned study materials. The Text Corrections list is available at:</p>

<p id="loma371-fm-p-87"><a href="http://www.loma.org/HelpCenter/PDFs/Reference/TextCorrections.pdf" id="loma371-fm-a-3">www.loma.org/HelpCenter/PDFs/Reference/TextCorrections.pdf</a></p>
</section>
<script>
	//<![CDATA[
	var figures = document.body.querySelectorAll("figure");
	for (var i = 0; i < figures.length; i++) {
		if (figures[i].getAttribute("data-mwidth")) {
			var maxWidth = figures[i].getAttribute("data-mwidth");
			figures[i].querySelector("img").setAttribute("style", maxWidth);
		}
	}//]]>
</script>

</body></html>