<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Figure and Video Descriptions</title>
    

<meta charset="utf-8" />
 <meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="raw\descriptions.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:b922015b-3022-d5a8-05b1-0943e82fd4ef" />
</head>
<body>
<section class="section descriptions" epub:type="part" role="doc-part">
<h1 class="chapter key">Figure and Video Descriptions</h1>

<h2 class="ch-num">Chapter 10</h2>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure10-1">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 10.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">The Goal of a Product’s Financial Structure</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Graphic equation.</p>

<p>The present value of future cash inflows must be greater than the present value of future cash outflows.</p>

<p>The present value of future cash inflows is shown as premium payments from customers plus investment earnings.</p>

<p>The present value of future cash outflows is shown as charge for cost of benefits plus charge for operating expenses plus provision for adverse deviation if required.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter10/page2.xhtml#figure10-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 10.1.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure10-2">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 10.2</p>

<p class="fig-title">Net Amount at Risk</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>A graph showing cash value that rises from $0 to $500,000 over years. The portion of the graph above the cash value line is labeled Net Amount at Risk, showing that the current net amount at risk is always the difference between $500,000 and the current cash value.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter10/page8.xhtml#figure10-2" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 10.2.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="video10-1">
<p class="fig-num">Video 10.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">Net Amount at Risk Formulas</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>The basic formula for the net amount at risk is equal to a policy’s death benefit minus its cash value. Let’s see what that means depending on UL death benefit options.</p>

<p><strong>Option A: Level Amount Death Benefit Plan</strong></p>

<p>For an Option A plan, the death benefit equals the face amount. Therefore, the net amount at risk is equal to the policy’s face amount minus the cash value.</p>

<p><strong>Net Amount at Risk = Death Benefit – Cash Value</strong></p>

<p><strong>Net Amount at Risk = Face Amount – Cash Value</strong></p>

<p><strong>Option B: Increasing Amount Death Benefit Plan</strong></p>

<p>For an Option B plan, the death benefit equals the face amount plus the cash value. Therefore, the net amount at risk is equal to the policy’s face amount.</p>

<p><strong>Net Amount at Risk = Death Benefit – Cash Value</strong></p>

<p><strong>Net Amount at Risk = (Face Amount + Cash Value) – Cash Value</strong></p>

<p><strong>Net Amount at Risk = Face Amount</strong></p>

<p><strong>Option C: Level Amount plus Premiums Death Benefit Plan</strong></p>

<p>For an Option C plan, the death benefit equals the face amount plus premiums paid. Therefore, the net amount at risk is equal to the sum of the policy’s face amount and premiums paid, minus the cash value.</p>

<p><strong>Net Amount at Risk = Death Benefit – Cash Value</strong></p>

<p><strong>Net Amount at Risk = (Face Amount + Premiums Paid) – Cash Value</strong></p>

<table class="blue striped">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<th>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Option A</p>
			</th>
			<th>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Option B</p>
			</th>
			<th>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Option C</p>
			</th>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Option A: Level Amount Death Benefit Plan</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Option B: Increasing Amount Death Benefit Plan</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Option C: Level Amount plus Premiums Death Benefit Plan</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Net Amount at Risk = Face Amount – Cash Value</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Net Amount at Risk = Face Amount</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p>Net Amount at Risk = (Face Amount + Premiums Paid) – Cash Value</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter10/page8.xhtml#video10-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Video 10.1.</a></p>
</div>

<h2 class="ch-num">Chapter 11</h2>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure11-1">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 11.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">Key Periods for Immediate and Deferred Annuities</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Three annuity timelines.</p>

<p>The Immediate Annuity timeline consists of a payout period that begins on an issue date, and is marked by periodic income payments.</p>

<p>The Non-Annuitized Deferred Annuity timeline consists of an accumulation period that begins on a purchase date.</p>

<p>The Annuitized Deferred Annuity timeline consists of an accumulation period that begins on a purchase date, reaches a maturity date, and then transitions into a payout period. The payout period is marked by periodic income payments.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter11/page3.xhtml#figure11-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 11.1.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="video11-1">
<p class="fig-num">Video 11.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">Life Annuity Payout Options</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p class="vid-desc">[Blocksmith Insurance company building on left and a person labeled “Annuitant” the right.]</p>

<p>The most basic form of a life annuity payout option is a single life annuity. The insurer makes periodic income payments until the annuitant’s death.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[Checks move from Blocksmith building to the Annuitant.]</p>

<p>Another payout option is a single life annuity with period certain. If the annuitant dies before the end of the period, the insurer makes payments to the beneficiary until the end of the period.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[Blocksmith Insurance company building on left and two people on the right, one labeled “Annuitant” and the other “Beneficiary.” Between the building and the people is an hourglass with sand in the top chamber labeled “Specified period.” Checks move from Blocksmith building to the Annuitant, and the sand begins to drain into the bottom chamber of the hourglass. Annuitant fades, checks stop, and the hourglass stops draining at halfway point.]</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[Checks resume, now going to the Beneficiary, and the hourglass begins to drain until the top half is empty and the checks stop.]</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[Blocksmith Insurance company building on the left and a new Annuitant and Beneficiary on the right, with a vertical bar that looks like a thermometer in the middle of the screen labeled “Premiums paid.” Checks move from Blocksmith building to the Annuitant, and the thermometer level rises.]</p>

<p>Under a single life with refund annuity, if the annuitant dies before the total of the periodic income payments equals the premiums paid, the insurer sends the difference to the beneficiary.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The checks stop and thermometer level stops at 60% and the Annuitant fades away. The empty part of the thermometer is highlighted and labeled “Refund.” Checks resume, going to the beneficiary.]</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[Blocksmith Insurance company building on the left and a couple labeled Annuitants on the right.]</p>

<p>A joint life annuity covers more than one life, like the couple below. The insurer makes periodic income payments until one of the annuitants dies.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[Checks move from Blocksmith building to the couple. One person in the couple fades away, and the payments stop.]</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[Blocksmith Insurance company building on the left and a new couple labeled Annuitants on the right.]</p>

<p>Text: Under a joint and survivor annuity, the insurer continues to make payments after one of the annuitants dies. Payments stop once both annuitants are deceased.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[Checks move from Blocksmith building to the couple. One person in the couple fades away, and the payments continue. The second annuitant fades away and disappears. The checks stop.]</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter11/page7.xhtml#video11-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Video 11.1.</a></p>
</div>
</section>


</body></html>