<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/reset.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/fonts.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/video-player.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/ibooks.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/ibooks-alt.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/mathml.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/mathml.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Figure and Video Descriptions</title>
    
<meta charset="utf-8" />
 <meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="raw\descriptions.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0674ae40-b704-f604-3ef9-e5b7fb72d7ad" />
</head>
<body>
<section class="section descriptions" epub:type="part" role="doc-part">
<h1 class="chapter key">Figure and Video Descriptions</h1>

<h2 class="ch-num">Chapter 7</h2>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure7-1">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 7.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">Ordinary Annuity and Annuity Due</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Two three-year timelines illustrating an ordinary annuity and an annuity due.</p>

<p>The ordinary annuity timeline shows payments taking place at the end of all three years, and interest earned at the end of years 2 and 3, with an illustration of a moderate sum of money.</p>

<p>The annuity due timeline shows payments taking place at the beginning of all three years, and interest earned at the end of all three years, with an illustration of a larger sum of money.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter7/page3.xhtml#figure7-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 7.1.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure7-2">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 7.2</p>

<p class="fig-title">Market Interest-Rate Increases</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>A list of changes that take place during market interest-rate increases.</p>

<p>General Changes: Rates are up and prices are down.</p>

<p>Changes in Bond Markets: Downward pressure on prices of existing bonds.</p>

<p>Reaction in General Account: Decreases in the market value of existing interest-bearing assets, and increases in the durations of some interest-bearing assets.</p>

<p>Reaction in Products: Potential increases in withdrawals, lapses, and surrenders of existing interest-bearing products.</p>

<p>Reaction in Liabilities: Fixed-rate product liabilities may shorten.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter7/page4.xhtml#figure7-2" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 7.2.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure7-3">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 7.3</p>

<p class="fig-title">Market Interest-Rate Decreases</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>A list of changes that take place during market interest-rate decreases.</p>

<p>General Changes: Rates are down and prices are up.</p>

<p>Changes in Bond Markets: Upward pressure on prices of existing bonds.</p>

<p>Reaction in General Account: Increases in the market value of existing interest-bearing assets, and decreases in the durations of some interest-bearing assets.</p>

<p>Reaction in Products: Potential decreases in withdrawals, lapses, and surrenders of existing interest-bearing products.</p>

<p>Reaction in Liabilities: Fixed-rate product liabilities may lenghten.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter7/page4.xhtml#figure7-3" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 7.3.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="video7-1">
<p class="fig-num">Video 7.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">Rules for Understanding the Time Value of Money</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p class="vid-desc">[A graph with two bars representing present value (left) and future value (right). A line appears from the present value bar, about a quarter way up, to the future value bar, about two-thirds up.]</p>

<p><strong>Principal Sum:</strong></p>

<p>A principal sum invested at interest grows over time. Therefore, the principal’s</p>

<div class="figure">
<ul>
	<li><em>Future value</em> is greater than its present value</li>
</ul>
</div>

<p class="vid-desc">[A small arrow runs along the line between the bars from left to right.]</p>

<div class="figure">
<ul>
	<li><em>Present value</em> is less than its future value</li>
</ul>
</div>

<p class="vid-desc">[The arrowing running along the line shifts direction, from right to left.]</p>

<p><strong>Interest Rate</strong></p>

<p>Because an interest rate is a rate of growth, for money earning a stated rate of positive interest for a specified period:</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The point where the line hits the future value graph is circled in red]</p>

<div class="figure">
<ul>
	<li>An <em>increase</em> in the interest rate results in an increase in the <em>future value.</em></li>
</ul>
</div>

<p class="vid-desc">[The circled point and line move up to 80% of the future value bar.]</p>

<p>Interest rate increase.</p>

<div class="figure">
<ul>
	<li>A <em>decrease</em> in the interest rate results in a decrease in the <em>future value.</em></li>
</ul>
</div>

<p class="vid-desc">[The circled point and line move down to 50% of the future value bar.]</p>

<p>Interest rate decrease.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The line is reset to its original position.]</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The point where the line hits the present value graph is circled in red]</p>

<p>When calculating the present value of a future sum, given a stated rate of positive interest for a specified period:</p>

<div class="figure">
<ul>
	<li>An <em>increase</em> in the interest rate results in a decrease in the <em>present value</em>.</li>
</ul>
</div>

<p class="vid-desc">[The circled point and line move down to 10% of the present value bar.]</p>

<p>Interest rate increase.</p>

<div class="figure">
<ul>
	<li>A <em>decrease</em> in the interest rate results in an increase in the <em>present value</em></li>
</ul>
</div>

<p class="vid-desc">[The circled point and line move up to 50% of the present value bar.]</p>

<p>Interest rate decrease.</p>

<p><strong>Number of Periods: </strong></p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The straight line becomes a series of steps between the two points on the present value and future value bars.]</p>

<p>Because interest is paid periodically and reinvested for compounding, for money earning a stated rate of interest for a specified period, an increase in the number of periods will result in</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The point where the line hits the future value graph is circled in red]</p>

<div class="figure">
<ul>
	<li>An increase in the <em>future value</em> of a present sum</li>
</ul>
</div>

<p class="vid-desc">[The circled point and line move up to 85% of the future value bar.]</p>

<div class="figure">
<ul>
	<li>A decrease in the <em>present value</em> of a future sum</li>
</ul>
</div>

<p class="vid-desc">[The stepped line goes back to original values. And the circle disappears. The point where the line hits the present value graph is circled in red. The circled point and line move down to 10% of the present value bar.]</p>

<p>Conversely, a decrease in the number of periods will result in</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The point where the line hits the future value graph is circled in red]</p>

<div class="figure">
<ul>
	<li>A decrease in the <em>future value </em>of a present sum</li>
</ul>
</div>

<p class="vid-desc">[The circled point and line move down to 50% of the future value bar.]</p>

<div class="figure">
<ul>
	<li>An increase in the <em>present value </em>of a future sum</li>
</ul>
</div>

<p class="vid-desc">[The stepped line goes back to original values. And the circle disappears. The point where the line hits the present value graph is circled in red. The circled point and line move up to 40% of the present value bar.]</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter7/page3.xhtml#video7-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Video 7.1.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="video7-2">
<p class="fig-num">Video 7.2</p>

<p class="fig-title">Profit Margin in a Deferred Annuity</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Remember that you can pause this video if you need more time to view the contents on any screen.</p>

<p>Basalt Life Insurance is modeling the profitability of a proposed new deferred annuity product for a period of five years into the future. Basalt sets the target profit margin at 8%.</p>

<p>First, Basalt models the product’s expected profits by comparing cash inflows, separated into premiums and interest earnings from investments, to cash outflows.</p>

<table class="blue striped">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<th>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Year</p>
			</th>
			<th>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Cash Inflows (Premiums + Interest)</p>
			</th>
			<th>
			<p style="text-align: center;">–</p>
			</th>
			<th>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Cash Outflows</p>
			</th>
			<th>
			<p style="text-align: center;">=</p>
			</th>
			<th>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Profits</p>
			</th>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">1</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$1,000 + $40</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">–</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$1,480</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">=</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;"><span style="color:#a21f1f">–$440</span></p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">2</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$800 + $24</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">–</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$648</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">=</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$176</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">3</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$750 + $16</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">–</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$572</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">=</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$194</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">4</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$700 + $13</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">–</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$500</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">=</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$213</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">5</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$650 + $12</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">–</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$450</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">=</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$212</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p>To calculate the profit margin, Basalt next determines both the present value of profits and the present value of premiums.</p>

<table class="blue striped">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<th>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Year</p>
			</th>
			<th>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Premiums</p>
			</th>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">1</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$1,000</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">2</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$800</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">3</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$750</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">4</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$700</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">5</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$650</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<table class="blue striped">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<th>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Year</p>
			</th>
			<th>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Profits</p>
			</th>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">1</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;"><span style="color:#a21f1f">–$440</span></p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">2</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$176</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">3</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$194</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">4</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$213</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">5</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$212</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p>Basalt assumes that premiums are paid at the beginning of the contract year, and that profits will be earned at the end of the year. Basalt uses a 3% interest rate to calculate present value.</p>

<table class="blue striped">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<th>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Year (<em>n</em>)</p>
			</th>
			<th>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Premiums</p>
			</th>
			<th colspan="2">
			<p style="text-align: center;">PV of Premiums</p>
			</th>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">1</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$1,000</p>
			</td>
			<td colspan="2">
			<p style="text-align: center;">$1,000</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">2</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$800</p>
			</td>
			<td colspan="2">
			<p style="text-align: center;">$776.72</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">3</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$750</p>
			</td>
			<td colspan="2">
			<p style="text-align: center;">$706.95</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">4</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$700</p>
			</td>
			<td colspan="2">
			<p style="text-align: center;">$640370</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">5</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$650</p>
			</td>
			<td colspan="2">
			<p style="text-align: center;">$577.50</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td colspan="3">
			<p style="text-align: center;">Total PV of Premiums = $3,701.87</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<table class="blue striped">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<th>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Year</p>
			</th>
			<th>
			<p style="text-align: center;">Profits</p>
			</th>
			<th>
			<p style="text-align: center;">PV of Profits</p>
			</th>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">1</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;"><span style="color:#a21f1f">–$440</span></p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">–$427.20</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">2</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$176</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$165.90</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">3</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$194</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$177.53</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">4</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$213</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$189..25</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">5</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$234</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: center;">$182.87</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td colspan="3">
			<p style="text-align: center;">Total PV of Profits: $288.35</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p>Finally, Basalt calculates the ratio of the present value of profits to the present value of premiums.</p>

<div class="example">
<p class="equation"><strong>Profit Margin =&#160;</strong><span class="equation equation480 kInline kInteractive" data-kotobee="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" data-preservedclasses="kInteractive equation equation480 kInline" id="ki-equation-0a" style="color:rgb(51, 51, 51); display:inline !important; font-size:1em; padding:5px; text-align:center"></span></p>

<p class="equation"><strong>Profit Margin =&#160;</strong><span class="equation equation615 kInline kInteractive" data-kotobee="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" data-preservedclasses="kInteractive equation equation615 kInline" id="ki-equation-0b" style="color:rgb(51, 51, 51); display:inline !important; font-size:1em; padding:5px; text-align:center"></span></p>

<p class="equation"><strong>Profit Margin = 7.79%</strong></p>
</div>

<p>Because the projected profit margin of 7.79% is less than the required profit margin of 8%, Basalt would likely reject the proposed product’s pricing.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter7/page5.xhtml#video7-2" role="doc-backlink">Return to Video 7.2.</a></p>
</div>

<h2 class="ch-num">Chapter 8</h2>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure8-1">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 8.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">Mortality Curves with Projection</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>A chart comparing the mortality rates per 1,000 calculated based on various industry tables, for issue age 55, male.</p>

<p>Line one, tabular mortality rates, is listed at 100%. The line curves sharply.</p>

<p>Line two, mortality rates with projection, is listed at 30%. The line curves more gradually, at a fraction of the height of the first line.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter8/page6.xhtml#figure8-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 8.1.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure8-2">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 8.2</p>

<p class="fig-title">Types of Mortality Tables</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Box 1: Differentiation by Demographic Group</p>

<p>Subtypes: Population Mortality Tables</p>

<p>Box 2: Differentiation by Product Type</p>

<p>Subtypes: Life Insurance Mortality Tables, Annuity Mortality Tables</p>

<p>Box 3: Differentiation by Purpose</p>

<p>Subtypes: Basic Mortality Tables, Valuation Mortality Tables</p>

<p>Box 4: Differentiation by Underwriting Characteristics</p>

<p>Subtypes: Select Mortality Tables, Ultimate Mortality Tables, Select and Ultimate Mortality Tables</p>

<p>Box 5: Differentiation by Sex</p>

<p>Subtypes: Sex-distinct Mortality Tables, Unisex Mortality Tables</p>

<p>Box 6: Differentiation by Availability to Public</p>

<p>Subtypes: Proprietary Mortality Tables, Published Mortality Tables</p>

<p>Box 7: Differentiation by Incorporated Rate Adjustments</p>

<p>Subtypes: Static Mortality Tables, Generational Mortality Tables, Mortality Tables with Projection</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter8/page6.xhtml#figure8-2" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 8.2.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="video8-1">
<p class="fig-num">Video 8.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">Developing Mortality Assumptions</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Actuaries need to develop mortality assumptions for a given purpose, such as pricing, reserving, or other product modeling. Let’s run through the process.</p>

<p><strong>Action:</strong> Begin project by gathering relevant mortality experience</p>

<p><strong>Outcome:</strong> Experience Mortality Rates</p>

<p><strong>Action:</strong> Develop basic mortality table reflecting a best fit with experience mortality rates</p>

<p><strong>Outcome:</strong> Basic Mortality Rates</p>

<p><strong>Action:</strong> Create a curve of expected mortality rates</p>

<p><strong>Outcome:</strong> Expected Mortality Rates</p>

<p><strong>Decision: </strong>Are further adjustments needed? (Yes or No)</p>

<p>YES.</p>

<p><strong>Action:</strong> Make further adjustments as needed</p>

<div class="figure">
<ul>
	<li>Include a margin for adverse deviation</li>
	<li>Reflect future mortality changes</li>
	<li>Reflect reasonable expectations that various factors will affect future mortality results</li>
</ul>
</div>

<p><strong>Return to Decision: </strong>Are further adjustments needed? (Yes or No)</p>

<p>NO.</p>

<p><strong>Outcome:</strong> Assumed Mortality Rates</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter8/page3.xhtml#video8-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Video 8.1.</a></p>
</div>

<h2 class="ch-num">Chapter 9</h2>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure9-1">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 9.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">Unit Cost Calculation for Policy Expenses</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>A flowchart equation for calculating the cost of policy issue expenses.</p>

<p>First box: Employee-related expenses of $1,500,000, includes salaries, office, equipment, software licenses, etc.</p>

<p>Second box: Other policy expenses of $5,500,000, includes processing costs, premium taxes, marketing research, etc.</p>

<p>Employee-related expenses of $1,500,000 + other policy expenses of $5,500,000 = Total expenses of $7,000,000</p>

<p>Total expenses of $7,000,000, divided by number of policies issued of 20,000, equals unit cost of $350.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter9/page4.xhtml#figure9-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 9.1.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure9-2">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 9.2</p>

<p class="fig-title">Cost Allocation for a Fixed Whole Life Insurance Product</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Two folders of cost allocation charts.</p>

<p>Chart 1, Acquisition Expenses (First Year):</p>

<p>First-year commissions: $55.00 per $100 of premiums</p>

<p>Underwriting; $1.00 per $1,000 of face amount; $100.00 per policy</p>

<p>Premium taxes: $2.00 per $100 of premiums</p>

<p>Other expenses: $0.25 per $1,000 of face amount; $21.25 per policy</p>

<p>Chart 2, Maintenance Expenses (After Year):</p>

<p>Renewal commissions: $10.00 per $100 of premiums</p>

<p>Premium taxes: $2.00 per $100 of premiums</p>

<p>Other expenses: $0.08 per $1,000 of face amount; $9.50 per policy</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter9/page4.xhtml#figure9-2" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 9.2.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="figure9-3">
<p class="fig-num">Figure 9.3</p>

<p class="fig-title">Sample Combination Commission Schedule Structures</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Two timelines of sample combination commission schedule structures. In both timelines, the surrender penalty ends at the end of Year 2.</p>

<p>Timeline 1 pays a one-time 3% deposit-based commission on new premium at the beginning of Year 1, and a 0.5% asset-based commission based on accumulated contract value, starting one year following the end of the surrender penalty, at the end of each year beginning with Year 3.</p>

<p>Timeline 2 pays a one-time 2% deposit-based commission on new premium during Year 1, and a 1% asset-based commission based on accumulated contract value, starting in the second contract year, at the end of each year beginning with Year 2.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter9/page4.xhtml#figure9-3" role="doc-backlink">Return to Figure 9.3.</a></p>
</div>

<div class="fig-desc" id="video9-1">
<p class="fig-num">Video 9.1</p>

<p class="fig-title">Using Margins to Reduce Risk</p>

<div class="inner-content">
<p>Spirea Financial estimated that its new whole life product would sell 15,000 policies in the first year.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">A temperature gauge marked “Policies” fills up. As it reaches the top, it’s labeled <strong>15,000 policies</strong></p>

<p>Spirea determined that if all 15,000 policies remained in force, the company would recover $1 million of its $1.2 million first-year expenses by the end of the second year.</p>

<p>This outcome would require the product to set a total expense charge of $66.67.</p>

<p><strong>$1,000,000 ÷ 15,000 policies = $66.67. </strong></p>

<p>Modeling indicated that the product could expect a 85-90% persistency rate (or 10-15% lapse rate) during its first year.</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The temperature gauge lowers to 90%.]</p>

<p><strong>First-year policies × persistency rate</strong></p>

<p><strong>15,000 × 90%</strong></p>

<p><strong>90% persistency: Estimated 13,500 policies at end of second year”. Move this text to the top of the screen, out of the way.</strong></p>

<p>But to provide a margin in case actual persistency was lower, Spirea increased its expense projections by assuming a lower 80% persistency rate (20% lapse rate).</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[The temperature gauge lowers to 80%.]</p>

<p><strong>First-year policies × persistency rate </strong></p>

<p><strong>15,000 × 80%</strong></p>

<p><strong>80% persistency: Projected 12,000 policies at end of second year </strong></p>

<p>Because Spirea set a margin for 80% persistency, it must charge each policy $83.33 to recover $1 million of first-year expenses.</p>

<p>If the product performs below estimation and earns only 80% persistency, the product will still meet its goals.</p>

<p><strong>$1,000,000 ÷ 12,000 policies = $83.33</strong></p>

<p><strong>$83.33 expense charge x 12,000 policies = $1,000,000</strong></p>

<p class="vid-desc">[A green checkmark appears over 12,000 policies in the calculation.]</p>

<p>The product’s margin mitigates the risk of lower persistency.</p>

<p>But the margin does not eliminate the risk entirely, as persistency could still drop below 80%.</p>

<p><strong>15,000 × 70% = 10,500 policies at end of second year</strong></p>

<p><strong>$83.33 expense charge × 10,500 policies = $874,965</strong></p>

<p class="vid-desc">[$83.33 expense charge is highlighted.]</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[A red “X” appears over “$874,965”.]</p>

<p>However, what if the product performs as originally modeled, and 90% of policies remain in force at the end of the second year?</p>

<p class="vid-desc">[Temperature gauge rises back to 90%.]</p>

<p>Spirea would recover $1,124,955 of first-year expenses.</p>

<p><strong>$83.33 × 13,500 customers = $1,124,955</strong></p>

<p class="vid-desc">[Three green check marks above “$1,124,955”.]</p>

<p>Because Spirea built a margin into the product, the product is more likely to perform at or above the level that Spirea prepared for.</p>
</div>

<p class="return visible"><a class="return" epub:type="backlink" href="../chapter9/page5.xhtml#video9-1" role="doc-backlink">Return to Video 9.1.</a></p>
</div>
</section>


</body></html>